Product Requirements Document (PRD)
Project: Secure Password Validator and Storage
1. Objective

The goal is to implement a secure password validation and storage system in Python.
The system must validate password strength and securely store the password.

The solution must follow security best practices and handle all edge cases safely.

2. Functional Requirements
2.1 Password Validation Function

Implement a function:

validate_password(password)


The function must:

Accept a password as input.
Return a descriptive error message if validation fails.
Return "Password is valid" if the password meets all requirements.

Must not crash if:

password is empty
password is None
password is not a string

2.2 Password Strength Requirements

The password must:

Be at least 8 characters long.
Contain at least one uppercase letter (A-Z).
Contain at least one lowercase letter (a-z).
Contain at least one digit (0-9).
Contain at least one special character
(Allowed: !@#$%^&*()-_+=<>?/)
Must not contain spaces.
Must not contain only repeated characters (e.g., "aaaaaaaa").

Validation should preferably use regular expressions.

2.3 Secure Password Storage

After successful validation:
The password must be hashed before storage.
Plain-text passwords must never be stored.
Use a secure hashing method (e.g., hashlib with SHA-256 or better).
The hash must be returned instead of the original password.
The system must prevent exposure of raw password values in logs or prints.

2.4 Error Handling

The system must:
Handle empty input safely.
Handle None input safely.
Handle non-string input safely.
Not crash under any invalid input.
Always return a meaningful message.

3. Security Requirements

The implementation must:

Not store plain-text passwords.
Not print passwords to console.
Not expose internal hashing logic unnecessarily.
Use secure hashing practices.

4. Output Behavior

If password is invalid:

Return a clear message explaining the reason. Example:

"Password must contain at least one digit."
"Password must be at least 8 characters long."

If password is valid:

Return:

"Password is valid"
and the hashed version of the password

5. Non-Functional Requirements

Code must be readable and well structured.
Functions must have clear names.
No hardcoded test passwords.
The solution must be safe and production-ready.
The system must not rely on external insecure libraries.