CFO Bot
1. System Overview
1.1 Purpose
CFO Bot is a web-based chatbot application that helps users estimate their monthly cloud computing costs in a simple and interactive way.
The system allows users to enter expected usage (such as compute hours, storage, and data transfer), and then automatically calculates the total monthly cost based on predefined pricing models.
CFO Bot provides:
A clear breakdown of costs by component across multiple cloud platforms (AWS, Azure, GCP, local providers)
Step-by-step interactive flows to calculate the total cost
An interactive chat interface with usage presets (Startup, Growth, Enterprise)
An integrated AI Chat Assistant powered by OpenAI to answer cloud-related questions
The main purpose of the system is to simulate the role of a “Chief Financial Officer (CFO)” by helping users understand and plan their cloud expenses before actually using cloud services.
1.2 Objectives
1. Accurate Cost Estimation
The bot MUST calculate monthly cloud costs using predefined mathematical formulas and fixed pricing models.
All calculations MUST be consistent and reproducible.
2. Support for Multiple Cloud Platforms and Components
The bot MUST support multiple providers (e.g., AWS, Azure, GCP, PS Cloud, Qaztelecom) in multiple currencies (USD, KZT) for various cloud resources, including:
1.	Compute (virtual machines)
2.	Storage
3.	Network bandwidth
4.	Database tiers
3. Transparent and Explainable Results
The system MUST not only return the final cost, but also show a detailed breakdown for each component and clearly explain how each value was calculated
4. Robust Input Handling (Edge Cases)

The system MUST handle incorrect or unexpected inputs, including:
Negative numbers
Missing values
Invalid data types
In such cases, the bot MUST return clear and helpful error messages instead of failing.
2. Supported Cloud Components
The CFO Bot SHALL support multiple cloud service components to simulate a realistic cloud cost estimation scenario.
Each component represents a common category of cloud infrastructure usage and MUST have:
A clearly defined unit of measurement
A fixed pricing model
A deterministic cost calculation method
The system MUST calculate each component independently and then aggregate them into a total monthly cost.
2.1 Compute (Virtual Machines)
Description:
Compute represents the cost of running virtual machines (VMs) in the cloud.
Unit:
Hours per month
User Input:
Number of compute hours (integer ≥ 0)
Assumptions:
The system assumes a constant hourly rate
2.2 Storage
Description:
Storage represents the cost of storing data in the cloud.
Unit:
Gigabytes (GB) per month
User Input:

Total storage used in GB (integer ≥ 0)
2.3 Bandwidth 
Description:
Bandwidth represents the cost of transferring data out of the cloud to the internet.
Unit:
Gigabytes (GB) per month
User Input:
Data transfer volume in GB (integer ≥ 0)
2.4 Database Tiers
Description:
This component represents managed database services with predefined pricing tiers.
Available Tiers:
Tier	Description	Monthly Cost
Basic	Suitable for small applications, testing, and low traffic systems	$25
Standart	
Designed for medium- scale applications with moderate traffic
	$50
Premium	Intended for high-performance applications with heavy workloads	$100

User Input:
Selection of one database tier
Assumptions:
Each tier has a fixed monthly cost
2.5 Component Integration Rules
The system MUST follow these rules when combining components:
All components are OPTIONAL except at least one input must be provided
Each component MUST be calculated independently
The final cost MUST be the sum of all selected components
If a component is not selected, its cost MUST be treated as zero
3. Pricing Configuration
3.1 Multi-Platform Pricing Table
The system MUST use a multi-platform pricing configuration supporting AWS, Azure, GCP, and local providers (PS Cloud, Qaztelecom), enabling multi-currency calculations (USD and KZT).
3.2 Centralized Pricing Configuration
All pricing values MUST be stored in a centralized configuration file (Pricing.js module and/or pricing.json).
Example platform structure:
{
  "platforms": {
    "aws": {
      "name": "Amazon Web Services (AWS)",
      "currency": "USD",
      "compute_per_hour": 0.096,
      ...
    }
  }
}
Pricing values MUST NOT be hardcoded in the calculation logic. All calculations MUST dynamically reference the currently selected platform's pricing parameters from the configuration.
4. Mathematical Cost Models
The system need to calculate the monthly cloud cost using deterministic mathematical formulas based on user inputs and predefined pricing values.
All calculations MUST:
Be consistent and reproducible
Follow linear pricing rules
Be independently verifiable through test cases
Each cloud component MUST be calculated separately before computing the total cost.
4.1 Variables
The system use the following variables:
Variable	Description	Unit
Compute_Hours	Total VM usage time	hours
Storage_GB	Total storage used	GB
Bandwidth_GB	Data transferred (egress)	GB
Database_Tier	Selected database plan	enum

 Compute Cost Model
𝐶compute = Compute_Hours * compute_per_hour (from pricing model)
 Storage Cost Model
𝐶storage = Storage_GB * storage_per_gb (from pricing model)
Bandwidth Cost Model
𝐶bandwidth = Bandwidth_GB * bandwidth_per_gb (from pricing model)
Database Cost Model
𝐶database = database (from pricing model)
Total Monthly Cost
Cost = 𝐶compute + 𝐶storage + 𝐶bandwidth + 𝐶database
4.2 Rounding Rules
All final outputs MUST be rounded to 2 decimal places
Intermediate calculations should use full precision
4.3 Deterministic Output
Given the same input, the system MUST always return the same result.
4.4 Edge Case Handling
Case	Behavior
Zero usage	Total cost = database cost (if selected)
All inputs zero	Total cost = $0
Large values	No overflow, correct scaling
Missing optional fields	Treated as 0

5. System Architecture
The CFO Bot system MUST follow a client-side architecture (Frontend-driven), separating logic locally to eliminate server costs and cold starts:
Presentation & Client-Side Logic (React/Vite)
Responsibilities:
•	Provide chat-based UI and AI Assistant integration
•	Collect and locally validate user inputs
•	Dynamically calculate costs strictly in the browser using the pricing configuration
•	Render stateful cost breakdowns instantly
Data & Settings Layer
pricing.js / pricing.json
Responsibilities:
•	Store all platform pricing values
•	Provide a single source of truth for platform tiers and pricing constants
External APIs
OpenAI API
Responsibilities:
•	Provide conversational AI responses for the chat feature
6. UI/UX Requirements
The CFO Bot SHALL provide a simple, intuitive, and user-friendly chat interface that allows users to seamlessly estimate cloud costs and query AI for guidance.
The design MUST prioritize clarity, ease of use, fast interaction
6.1 Interface Requirements
The system MUST include:
Chat-style interface with a main menu (Calculate vs AI Chat)
Usage presets (Startup, Growth, Enterprise) for fast estimation
Custom Input prompts for specific component data
Structured cost output comparing estimates based on the chosen platform
Error messages for invalid input
6.2 User Interaction Flow
1.	User opens the web application
2.	Bot greets the user with a Main Menu offering Cost Calculation or AI Chat.
3.	User provides values
4.	Bot calculates cost
5.	Bot displays detailed breakdown
6.3 Output Format Requirements
The bot MUST display results in a structured format:

Example:
Compute Cost: $5.00
Storage Cost: $15.00
Bandwidth Cost: $20.00
Database Cost: $50.00

Total Monthly Cost: $90.00
6.4 Error Handling UX
The system MUST:
Show clear error messages
Explain what went wrong
Suggest correct input
Example:
“Invalid input: Storage must be a positive number.”
