Air Astana Group integrated annual report 2024
fulﬁlling our 
promises
The Air Astana Group is the largest airline group in Central Asia and 
the Caucasus regions by revenue and fleet size, operating over 107 
routes across 22 countries, through its two leading brands, Air Astana, 
our full-service airline, and FlyArystan, our low-cost carrier. We operate 
at the heart of one of the fastest-growing aviation markets in the world.
We employ over 6,000 people and have established a vibrant team 
culture that centres on excellence, operating with a great sense of 
pride and a strong sense of determination to maintain the high 
standards that our Group is founded upon. We have developed an  
award-winning level of service from an extremely efficient platform. 
Air Astana and FlyArystan carry out complementary roles within our 
family structure.
Underpinning our vision of growing from the heart of Eurasia to build 
one of the finest airline groups in the world, our strategy is built on 
three key pillars of growth, efficiency and excellence.
From the heart of Eurasia we are 
building one of the finest airlines 
in the world.
fulﬁlling our promises 
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 20242   3   
fulﬁlling our promises
fulﬁlling our promises
growth
Making the most of strong demand and opportunities across 
growing domestic, regional and international markets
   Record dividends proposed and enhanced dividend policy going forward
   RASK growth largely offsetting CASK, positive quarter on quarter trend
   Effective yield management
   EBITDAR growing faster than capacity
   Improved average load factor 
   Growth in passenger numbers  
   Fleet expansion ahead of the plan 
   Growing demand in domestic market and Asia/Middle East 
   Expansion of the network
57
aircraft across the Air Astana Group
107
routes across 22 countries
21
routes opened in 2024
68% 
Group’s domestic market share
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 20244   5   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
fulﬁlling our promises
eﬃciency
Proactive cost management and investment in operational 
facilities
   Invest in more fuel-efficient and modern aircraft to support our sustainability 
objectives and increase passenger comfort
   Continued improvements and expansion of in-house fleet maintenance and 
training facilities, plans to establish Air Astana Terminal Services
   Extended range of narrow-body aircraft
  Successful execution of Pratt & Whitney mitigation plan
  Dynamic capacity management to offset rises in unit costs
  Robust CASK performance
83.5% 
 Group’s average load factor
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 20246   7   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Air Astana:
Best Airline in Central Asia & CIS by Skytrax for  
thirteen years running
Best Airline Staff Service in Central Asia & CIS award 
for the eighth time
APEX Best Overall Airline in Central Asia
APEX Five Star award in the ‘Major Airlines’ category 
in 2024
FlyArystan:
Best Low-Cost Carrier in Central Asia &  
CIS award for the second time
fulﬁlling our promises
excellence
Well positioned to achieve further growth
   Air Astana Group continues to expand its global network by establishing strategic 
partnership through codesharing and interline agreements with major airlines 
   Continue enhancing award-winning customer experience with upgraded website, 
new app, improved loyalty programme, lounges in Almaty and Astana
   Air Astana is committed to updating its Low-Carbon Development Programme (LCDP) 
with credible near-term milestones and a target of net-zero emissions by 2050, 
aligned with the Paris Agreement
   FlyArystan received an Air Operator Certificate (AOC) and separate IATA code
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 20248   9   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
At a glance
Highlights  11
Investment case 12
The Group at a glance 14
Strategic report
Chair statement 20
CEO’s statement 24
External environment  27  
Business model 32
Strategy  34
Key performance indicators  36
Sustainable resources and relationships  38
Principal risks and uncertainties 74
Operating review 82
Financial review 92
Governance 
Introduction to Corporate Governance  98
Corporate governance framework 100
Board leadership and Company purpose  101
Strategic Planning Committee report 108
ESG Committee report 109
Division of responsibilities  110
Board of Directors  112
Senior management team  114
Composition, succession and evaluation  116
Nomination and Remuneration Committee report 118
Remuneration report 120 
Treasury Committee report 123
Audit Committee report 124
Responsibility statement 127
Financial statements
Statement of management’s responsibilities  130
Independent auditors’ report  131
Consolidated statement of profit or loss  135
Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income  136
Consolidated statement of financial position  137
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  138
Consolidated statement of cash flows  139 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  140
Additional information
Major transactions  182
Economic performance  182
GRI content index  183
Independent practitioner’s assurance report 186
TCFD 188
Glossary  196
Contents    
Total revenue*  
(USD)
1,308m
+12.4% Year-on-year
2023: 1,164m
ASK
19.3bn
+9.2% Year-on-year
2023: 17.7bn
Adjusted EBITDAR*  
(USD)
338.6m
+16.1% Year-on-year
2023: 291.6m 
CASK* (USCents)
6.02
+2.7% Year-on-year
2023: 5.86
Load factor
83.5%
+0.7pp Year-on-year
2023: 82.8%
RASK* (USCents)
6.75
+2.6% Year-on-year
2023: 6.58
RPK
16.1bn
+10.1% Year-on-year
2023: 14.6bn
Number of passengers
9.0m
+11.2% Year-on-year
2023: 8.1m
Adjusted EBITDAR*  
margin 
25.9%
+0.8pp Year-on-year
2023: 25.1%
Fleet size
57
16.3% Year-on-year
2023: 49
Group financial highlights
Group operational highlights
*  Excluding non-recurring items: Net IPO related expe nses of USD 1.8 million in 2023/USD 12.9 million in 2024. Revenue from the extraordinary market event i mpacted by partial mobilisation in Russia 
of USD 11.0 million in 2023. RASK adjustment of USD 4.2 million in 2024. Donations of USD 2.7 million in connection with the flood situation in Kazakhsta n in 2024.
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202410   11   
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
Operational efficiency
A young and modern, fuel-efficient fleet 
supports reliability and cost-effectiveness. 
Advanced in-house training resources include 
a Pilot ab-initio Cadet Programme to meet 
the need for a local supply of qualified pilots, 
and improved Airbus maintenance facilities 
in house avoid ‘empty’ miles and days 
travelling to other providers.
Clear market leader
Leading in the home market, Central Asia 
and the Caucasus, the Group is well 
positioned for untapped growth 
opportunities. Kazakhstan is the fastest-
growing country in Central Asia, in the 
highest air-traffic growth region (IATA), and 
with easy access to extended home market 
and megamarkets.
Financial resilience
The combination of proactive route 
planning, cost leadership and operational 
agility provides a successful formula for 
promoting financial resilience throughout 
the cycle, demonstrated by the strong 
response to crises – Covid, the Russia-
Ukraine war and recent industry  
challenges. The Group maintains a robust 
balance sheet and liquidity position.
Commitment to sustainability
With well defined ESG targets, the Group 
aims to become the most sustainable 
airline in the CIS and Central Asia. Priorities 
include the Low-Carbon Development 
Programme, the safety, health and 
wellbeing of employees, and funding 
community projects.  
Strong management and 
governance
The business is supported by an experienced, 
proven Board of Directors, management 
team and sound governance practices. 
Relatively low turnover among management 
– an average tenure of 16 years – ensures a 
strong culture, industry experience and 
corporate memory. 
Investment case
Two airlines - doubling  
the growth opportunity
Investment case continued
One Group operating full-service and low-cost 
carriers, with differentiated strategies to grow 
profitably. Each airline targets different markets and 
customer needs: Air Astana, our full-service airline, 
focuses on business and lifestyle travel; FlyArystan, 
our low-cost brand, independently managed  
and scalable, bolsters demand for air travel.
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202412   13   
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AKTAU
AKTOBE
ALMATY
ASTANAAMSTERDAM
FRANKFURT
SHARM EL SHEIKH
ISTANBUL
PODGORICA
ANTALYAHERAKLION
BODRUM
DOHA
MALE
GOA
LONDON
DELHI
URUMCHI
PHUKET
TBILISI
BATUMI
KUTAISI
BAKU
KOSTANAYURALSK
ATYRAU
COLOMBO
JEDDAH
DUBAI
PHU QUOC
BANGKOK
KARAGANDA
SHYMKENT
DUSHANBE
SEOUL
BEIJING
SANYA
MEDINA
KYZYLORDA
OSKEMEN
BISHKEK
TASHKENT
URAL SK
AT YR AU
AKT AU
AKTOBE
KYZY LO RDA
TURKI ST AN
SHYMKENT
ALMATY
KO ST ANAY
AST ANA
SEMEY
KAR AG ANDA
OS KEMEN
PA VLODAR
 
The Group at a glance
At the heart of  
everywhere
The Air Astana Group continued to 
expand its network and, at the end 
of 2024, Air Astana operated on 63 routes 
and FlyArystan on 59.
This covers five geographical areas, increasing our share  
of both the domestic market and in the Central Asian and 
Caucasus region as well as on international routes to multiple 
locations across Europe (such as London, Amsterdam and 
Frankfurt), Saudi Arabia (such as Jeddah and Medina) and  
Asia (such as Beijing and Bangkok and lifestyle destinations  
in Asia). We are building our presence in the flourishing 
‘lifestyles’ market and now fly to popular tourist destinations in 
Egypt, Georgia, Greece, Maldives, Montenegro, Thailand, Turkey 
and the UAE. In line with this broader geographic spread and 
increased flight availability, we also experienced strong 
passenger growth, carrying nine million passengers in 2024. 
New routes and network expansion 
As at 31 December 2024, the Group’s passenger network covered 
107 routes (74 international and 33 domestic), 45 destinations in 
22 countries. The Group further expanded its network in 2024 
with new routes and destinations to high-demand regions across 
Asia, including China, the Gulf, India and Vietnam.
Routes
59
Destinations
23
Passengers
4.2m
Low-cost carrier
  Market disruptor
   Rapid network expansion in the 
domestic and nearby markets
   Focus on international 
destinations within five hours
   High-density single-class seating
   High aircraft utilisation 
compared with peers
  Diversified across three bases 
Routes
63
Destinations
38
Passengers
4.8m
Full-service airline
   Primary focus on business  
and direct flights to lifestyle  
destinations
   Expanding regional and  
international network
   Modern fuel-efficient aircraft 
   Two classes of cabin
   High aircraft utilisation  
compared with peers
Destinations
45
Domestic and international  
routes in 2024
107
 Air Astana
 FlyArystan
Domestic routes
The Group at a glance continued
 
 Air Astana/FlyArystan
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 15   
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
14   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
fulﬁlling our promises
2002
First flight Almaty 
– Astana
First International 
flight Almaty – Dubai
2003
European Aviation 
Safety Agency’s (EASA) 
Joint Aviation 
Requirements (JAR) 145 
certification received for 
Engineering and 
Maintenance
2007
Launch of frequent flyer 
programme Nomad 
Club
2008
Launch of ab-initio pilot  
training programme
Officially registered  
by IATA as an  
Operational Safety Audit  
(IOSA) - compliant carrier
2014
Air Astana became a 
Member of Association 
of Asia Pacific Airlines 
2016
Delivery of first 
A320neo aircraft  
and start of fleet 
simplification 
programme
2012
First in CIS four-star  
Skytrax rating 
First own aircraft 
delivery
2018
Commissioning of the 
aviation technical 
centre in Astana
2013
Skytrax award best 
airline in Central 
Asia and India and 
best airline service
2022
First Heavy maintenance 
in-house C2-check completed
Delivery of first new Airbus 
aircraft - FlyArystan
2023
FlyArystan awarded 
four-star LCC
Inauguration of full-flight 
simulator
2019
Launch of FlyArystan, 
the low-cost carrier 
in Central Asia
2021
The Group is one of the  
first airlines to return to  
profitability in H1 2021 
FlyArystan launched  
first international route 
Turkistan – Istanbul
   Successful IPO on three stock exchanges
   FlyArystan obtained AOC and separate IATA code
   All eligible employees were granted shares of 
Air Astana as a part of long term incentive 
programme 
   FlyArystan completed a Skytrax Audit, 
reaffirming its four-star LCC status
   Air Astana Group is now a certified ACCA 
(Association of Chartered Certified Accountants) 
Approved Employer at Platinum level
    EASA – Part 145 and Part 147 renewal audits
2001
Creation of Air Astana as 
a JV between the Republic 
of Kazakhstan and  
BAE Systems
The Group at a glance
Our journey
The Group at a glance
Our growth
Building on a compelling historical 
growth trajectory, we achieved 
strong growth in our first year as  
a public company, fulfilling our 
promises set out at IPO despite  
the capacity and cost challenges 
that affected the wider industry. 
Underpinned by a growing fleet and 
expanded capacity, the Group added 
nearly a million passengers in 2024 
with an increasing load factor, thanks 
to growing demand for air travel across 
Kazakhstan, our extended home 
market and nearby megamarkets.
2029 
84
Group fleet
54
Air Astana fleet
30
FlyArystan fleet
52%
market share
4.3m
total passengers
34
Air Astana fleet
2018 
83%
market share
2.5m
total passengers
22
Air Astana fleet
2010 
FlyArystan 
28%
market share
23
fleet
Air Astana 
40%
market share
34
fleet
68%
combined market share
9.0m
total passengers
57
Group fleet
Forecast
2024
2024
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 17   
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
16   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
fulﬁlling our promises
Significantly underserved market 
in Central Asia and the 
Caucasus region
Air Astana Group can help improve air travel connectivity in 
the significantly underserved market of the Central Asia and 
the Caucasus region. 
Ideally positioned to connect 
nearby megamarkets
Kazakhstan is strategically located with easy access to 
two of the largest aviation markets in the world, India 
and China, and close proximity to the Middle East and 
Europe.
Passengers: China and India
950m+
Passengers: Western Europe
1.4bn
Passengers: Middle East
402m
Population of Central Asia and Caucasus
97m
Weekly frequencies: Air Astana
38
Weekly frequencies: FlyArystan
18
A clear leader in our home market, 
well positioned for untapped 
growth opportunities
There are substantial opportunities for growth within 
this highly underserved market with a low propensity 
to fly.
The Group at a glance
A future of 
opportunity
Population of Kazakhstan
20.3m 
Total domestic market in Kazakhstan
9.2m
Forecasted propensity to fly ratio  
by 2030
1.75
The Group is well positioned to 
achieve further growth across both 
brands in 2025. Our international 
passenger base has evolved 
significantly in recent years, with both 
Air Astana and FlyArystan expanding 
their networks. This opportunity is 
underpinned by a highly underserved 
domestic market, with a growing 
propensity to fly, a significantly under-
served market in the Central Asia and 
Caucasus region where we can help 
improve air travel connectivity, and a 
strategic location with easy access to 
megamarkets.  
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202418   19   
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
fulﬁlling our promises
  
Macro trends and performance
Central Asia continues to be one of the 
fastest-growing aviation markets in the world, 
a fact declared both by IATA as well as a recent 
Asian Development Bank report, and I believe 
Kazakhstan is the one of the region’s most 
promising markets. Due to its strategic location, 
Kazakhstan is well positioned to serve as a link 
between Europe and East Asia, as well as being 
at a reasonable distance from the Middle East. 
The country is often regarded as the ‘centre’  
of the world, or to borrow the aviation jargon, 
as a ‘mid-way hub’. As the leading carrier of 
Kazakhstan, we are proud of our role in 
transforming connectivity across the region, 
which we believe has untapped growth 
potential, especially when we include our 
nearby megamarkets of China, India, the Gulf 
and Saudi Arabia. Passenger demand remains 
strong across both our full-service airline Air 
Astana and our low-cost carrier FlyArystan, 
and we are increasing capacity by expanding 
the fleet and optimising resources.
However, other challenges faced the airline 
industry in 2024. These included the Pratt & 
Whitney engine issue, as well as other 
supply-chain constraints, which put pressure 
on capacity. 
There was also a significant increase in costs 
across the board – airports, navigation, 
maintenance, aircraft charges, and smaller 
ancillary costs. Another major global theme 
was that the significant post-Covid increase in 
yields experienced in 2022 and 2023 stalled to 
some extent, exacerbated by the cost of living. 
Despite these ongoing headwinds across the 
broader aviation industry, I’m pleased to report 
a strong performance from the Group. Through 
our Pratt & Whitney mitigation plan, we rested 
engines during the low season in order to 
maximise availability during the summer peak. 
Our central geographical location and flexible, 
dual-brand model enabled us to optimise 
capacity by swiftly reallocating aircraft from 
lower-performing Western routes towards 
higher-margin routes in Asia and the Middle 
East. As a result, the Group has mitigated cost 
pressures and achieved a healthy adjusted 
EBITDAR margin* of 25.9% Our unit cost 
remains a strategic advantage, enabling us to 
expand short and long-haul routes while 
competing effectively with other airlines and 
outperforming the wider sector. 
Dividend and share buyback
Our solid performance has led to a strong 
financial position and a healthy balance sheet. 
The Company has been very successful at 
generating cash in recent years and this 
continued in 2024, leading to a very sound 
cash position in comparison with other airlines, 
whether measured in cash to sales, cash to 
EBITDAR, or net debt to EBITDAR. This has 
allowed us to approach the question of 
dividends in that context. 
The Board of Directors recommended to the 
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 
(AGM) an ordinary dividend of KZT 17.7 per 
one common share (KZT 70.9 per GDR – of 
four shares), a total dividend of KZT 6.3 billion, 
earlier than the medium-term guidance set 
out at IPO. Additionally, in light of the Group’s 
robust financial results for 2024 and strong 
balance sheet, the Board of Directors has 
recommended a special dividend of KZT 36.0 
per one common share (KZT 143.9 per GDR), 
a total dividend of KZT 12.8 billion. 
The total proposed dividend (ordinary and 
special dividend) amounts to KZT 53.7 per one 
common share and KZT 214.8 per GDR. The 
Board of Directors has approved an enhanced 
dividend policy stipulating a dividend of 30% 
to 50% of annual consolidated net income, 
ahead of the previous guidance of up to 20%.
In recognition of the hard work and commitment 
shown by our colleagues, on 30 April 2024 we 
began a share buyback programme to enable 
our long-term incentive plan. As at 31 December 
2024, the Group had purchased in total 
4,638,555 shares for a total consideration of 
USD 8.2 million. First vesting of shares and 
global depositary receipts (GDRs) to employees 
was made on 17 February 2025.
Strong governance  
Our listing on three stock exchanges will 
undoubtedly increase the visibility of our 
business and attract investors’ attention. I 
would like to assure all current and prospective 
investors that Air Astana Group has always had 
a strong commitment to corporate governance, 
integrity and compliance, and this will remain 
a priority throughout my tenure as Chairman 
of the Board. Our highly experienced senior 
management team has already proven its ability 
to maintain our financial objectives and growth 
trajectory throughout a variety of challenging 
macroeconomic and geopolitical environments, 
enabling both Air Astana and FlyArystan to 
outperform many of its peers and deliver 
results in line with market expectations. 
This accomplishment demonstrates our remarkable 
success over the last two decades as one of the 
fastest-growing airline group’s in the world, and is 
something of which we feel justifiably proud. It is 
a recognition of the long-running growth trajectory 
and strong foundations of the Air Astana Group, 
and the compelling prospect of increased air travel 
across our key markets. 
The listing has been transformational for the 
Group’s shareholder structure, going from having 
had only two shareholders for 22 years, to now 
having more than 60,000 shareholders including 
institutional and retail investors. It was the first 
privatisation in Kazakhstan, with the State share 
dropping below 50% after the public offering, 
although both foundational partners remain major 
shareholders. The listing creates the perfect 
platform both for local Kazakh investors and 
international investors to participate in our success 
story, as we continue to grow into one of the top 
international airline groups. I look forward to 
continuing Air Astana’s journey with the Board and 
its Executive Management team, as we continue in 
defining and executing our strategy for growth.
By dynamic capacity reallocation to higher margin 
routes in Asia and the Gulf, we improved Revenue 
per Available Seat Kilometer (RASK) by 2.6%*, which 
largely offset the rise in unit costs. This resulted in 
a 12.4% increase in revenue, to USD 1.3 billion*, 
and a 16.1% improvement in adjusted EBITDAR to 
USD 338.6 million*, ahead of ASK growth of 9.2%. 
 
Welcome to the Air Astana Group Annual Report 
for 2024. In the first quarter of 2024, Air Astana Group 
celebrated the major milestone of a successful USD 
365 million IPO on the London Stock Exchange, 
Kazakhstan Stock Exchange and Astana International 
Exchange – becoming the first company, both 
domestically and internationally, to achieve a 
simultaneous listing on three stock exchanges. 
Chairman’s statement 
A platform for investment
*   Excluding non-recurring items: Net IPO related expenses of USD 
1.8 million in 2023/USD 12.9 million in 2024. Revenue from the 
extraordinary market event impacted by partial mobilisation in 
Russia of USD 11.0 million in 2023. RASK adjustment of USD 4.2 
million in 2024. Donations of USD 2.7 million in connection with 
the flood situation in Kazakhstan in 2024. 
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 21   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202420   
fulﬁlling our promises
Chairman’s statement continued 
Board and management 
At the AGM on 30 May 2024, as had been 
previously announced, Myles Westcott 
stepped down from the Board, while Diyas 
Assanov was appointed as an Independent 
Non-Executive Director, starting on 31 May 
2024. Myles Westcott was a valuable member 
of the Board and I would like to thank him for 
his contribution to the success of the Group 
over the last six years. Diyas Assanov brings 
extensive experience in engineering, transport 
and communications, which will be instrumental 
in supporting the next stage of our development, 
particularly our ongoing digitalisation. 
Colleagues and culture 
We are the largest employer in Kazakhstan, 
providing interesting and motivating work for 
6,546 colleagues, whose expertise and skills 
are invaluable assets for our business. We 
provide a positive and inclusive work 
environment based on our corporate values 
and a culture of recognition. In addition, I am 
proud that Air Astana was included in the 
ranking of the best IT employers in Kazakhstan 
according to People Consulting, confirming its 
attractiveness to industry specialists.
Excellence lies at the centre of all we do and, 
by establishing it throughout our culture, we are 
building an engaged and satisfied workforce. 
We believe this focus on excellence will play a 
key role in positioning ourselves as one of the 
finest airline groups in the world. It is one of th e 
strategic pillars on which we have built our status  
as a major economic and social enabler within 
Kazakhstan. Our Group values underpin our ethos 
of recognition, professional development and, 
above all, equality of opportunity. 
On this note, I would like to thank all my 
colleagues for their hard work throughout the 
year, and continued commitment to excellence 
and the highest levels of customer service, 
which is the foundation of our growth. Our 
strong competitive position in a growing 
aviation market provides a solid platform as 
we look to the future with confidence.
Embracing ESG 
At Air Astana Group, we embrace sustainability 
as a fundamental part of our future success. 
Our comprehensive ESG Strategy for 2023–2032 
is accompanied by a series of planned ESG 
initiatives aimed at reducing our consumption 
of resources, and our environmental impact. 
We have also developed a broad scope of 
activities that prioritise the safety, health and 
wellbeing of employees and contractors, along 
with projects that support the wider community.
The aviation industry as a whole is responsible 
for, and committed to, minimising its 
environmental impact, and we at Air Astana have 
pledged to become one of the most sustainable 
airlines in the CIS and Central Asia. We are 
exploring alternative energy sources and 
implementing fuel-efficient flight plans, as well a s 
looking at the potential of producing and using 
sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) in Kazakhstan. 
Outlook
For a variety of reasons, many airlines could 
suffer capacity shortages in 2025, yet we are 
well positioned due to investment in our fleet 
and facilities, our successful management of 
Pratt & Whitney engine issues by introducing 
an engine-resting programme, and our ability 
to realign capacity to ensure the highest 
margin and mitigate cost pressures. Additionally, 
although the whole sector is benefiting from 
growth in premium leisure traffic, we see 
significant opportunities to add services to our 
existing routes and expand into new 
geographic areas, aiming to realise our vision 
of growing from the heart of Eurasia to build 
one of the finest airline groups in the world. 
 
Nurlan Zhakupov
Chairman of the Board of Directors
As the flagship carrier of Kazakhstan, we are proud of our 
role in transforming connectivity across the region, which  
we believe has untapped growth potential.
Nurlan Zhakupov
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Chairman’s statement continued
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202422   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 23   
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
We continue to proactively manage the fleet 
and add capacity in line with our growth 
strategy. Under our Pratt & Whitney mitigation 
plan, we took early action to rest engines in 
the low seasons, secure additional aircraft 
and spare engine capacity. We added eight 
(net) aircraft in 2024, ahead of guidance, the 
fleet has subsequently expanded to 60 and  
is expected to reach 63 aircraft by year end. 
The network continues to grow, with 21 new 
routes added in 2024, 14 of which launched  
in Q4. In 2025, we have already announced 
another eight new routes in key growth 
markets, including direct flights from Almaty 
to Frankfurt, Guangzhou, Mumbai, and Da 
Nang and Nha Trang in Vietnam. The 
installation of auxiliary fuel tanks on the 
Airbus A321LR has made new routes possible 
by extending cost-efficient narrow-body 
range on long-haul flights. 
We are delighted to announce that we have 
signed an MoU with China Southern Airlines, 
China’s powerhouse airline, for a 
comprehensive set of codeshares across 
China, Kazakhstan and, subject to third-country 
bilateral agreement, other countries in East 
Asia, Central Asia and the Caucasus. I cannot 
sufficiently emphasise that this key partnership, 
once the MoU has been translated into a 
concrete agreement, will accelerate our 
expansion into this neighbouring 
megamarket. 
In addition, the new international terminal at 
Almaty airport has doubled capacity at our 
main hub, resolving a key constraint on the 
Group’s future growth.  
The Group’s operational efficiency is 
underpinned by investment in our people  
and facilities. In 2024, our Advanced Technical 
Centre performed the most comprehensive  
12 Year C-check on our Airbus fleet, and 
construction plans are progressing for new 
hangars in Almaty and Astana to further 
expand maintenance capacity. We are 
constantly looking at ways to make operations 
even more efficient and turn costs into profit 
centres. We have just received our second full 
flight simulator, which will be in service by 
the year end. 
We are in the process of establishing our 
Ground Services subsidiary, Air Astana Terminal 
Services, to increase efficiency and potentially 
generate revenue by serving other airlines at 
our principal hubs at Almaty and Astana. 
We have continued to focus on high-quality 
service delivery, reflected by the Skytrax 
award for Air Astana of Best Airline Central 
Asia and CIS, for the thirteenth year running, 
Best Airline Staff Service in Central Asia and 
CIS for the eighth year running, and for 
FlyArystan, Best Low-Cost Airline Central Asia 
and CIS for the second year running.
Our financial performance and robust balance 
sheet give us the confidence to recommend 
an ordinary dividend of KZT 6.3 billion (USD 
13.0 million), sooner than guided, and an 
additional, special dividend of KZT 12.8 billion 
(USD 25.2 million). This is testament to the 
efforts of all our employees across Air Astana 
and FlyArystan, who last month became 
shareholders under the Employee Share 
Ownership Plan, a fitting reward for their 
commitment over several years. 
Entering the new financial year, we are well 
positioned to deliver growth across both our 
brands, underpinned by strong demand and 
expanded capacity. While cost inflation and 
supply chain disruption across the wider 
industry are likely to remain for some time, 
we are among the best placed in the industry 
due to our low unit costs, high operating 
margins and dynamic approach to fleet 
management. As a result, we are confident  
in delivering our medium-term guidance.
I would like to conclude by thanking my 
fellow board directors, shareholders, business 
and government partners for their continued 
support, our customers for their continued 
loyalty, and my colleagues for their continued 
dedication and professionalism. All have 
contributed to a solid performance in 2024. 
 
Peter Foster
Chief Executive Officer
CEO’s statement 
In 2024, the Air Astana Group carried 
9.0 million passengers, a growth of  
11.2% year on year, generating  
USD 145.7 million operating profit  
on total revenues of USD 1.3 billion,  
an increase of 14.9% and 12.4%  
respectively on an underlying basis 1.  
Profit after tax was USD 65.2 million,  
a growth of 6.0% excluding  
non-recurring items 1. 
We achieved strong growth in our first year as a public 
company, fulfilling our promises set out at IPO, despite 
the capacity and cost challenges impacting the wider 
industry. The Group added nearly a million passengers  
in 2024, with an increasing load factor, driven by growing 
demand for air travel across Kazakhstan, our extended 
home market and nearby megamarkets. By allocating 
capacity to higher-margin routes in Asia and the Gulf, we 
improved RASK by 2.6% which largely offset the rise in 
unit costs. This resulted in a 16.1% improvement in 
adjusted EBITDAR to USD 338.6 million, ahead of ASK 
growth of 9.2%. The RASK-CASK index differential 
improved progressively over the quarters and turned 
positive in Q4, resulting in RASK growth almost fully 
offsetting CASK for the year and exceeding our guidance.
1   Excluding non-recurring items: Net IPO related expenses of  
USD 1.8 million in 2023/USD 12.9 million in 2024. Revenue from  
the extraordinary market event impacted by partial mobilisation  
in Russia of USD 11.0 million in 2023. RASK adjustment of  
USD 4.2 million in 2024. Donations of USD 2.7 million in connection 
with the flood situation in Kazakhstan in 2024.  
We are delighted to announce that we have signed an 
MoU with China Southern Airlines, China’s powerhouse 
airline, for a comprehensive set of codeshares across 
China, Kazakhstan and, subject to third country 
bilateral agreement, other countries in East Asia, 
Central Asia and Caucasus
CEO’s statement continued
 
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 25   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202424   
 
Regional variations
This year, all regions out-performed their 
pre-pandemic levels. Asia Pacific airlines led in 
annual growth by a large margin, achieving a 
16.9% year-on-year increase in RPK. Africa also 
grew above the industry average, ranking second 
with 13.2% year-on-year. North American airlines 
tailed the regions, rising 4.6% from a higher base. 
On the supply side, ASK increases in all regions, 
except North America, were lower than the rise in 
RPK, leading to higher load factors across the board.
The Asia Pacific region contributed more than half of 
the net increase in passenger traffic over 2024. 
Northeast Asia led in passenger traffic growth, 
reflecting the ongoing ramp-up of international 
traffic from China to nearby sub-regions, along with 
a substantial increase in domestic tourism within 
the country. The two other largest airline regions, 
Europe and North America, contributed a third of 
total RPK growth. Conflicts and strained airspace 
continued to impact the free flow of air traffic in 
some parts of the world, leading more passengers 
to travel through Middle Eastern hubs than ever 
before. Between Europe and the Middle East, traffic 
was 11.9% higher than the pre-pandemic record of 
2019 and increased 4.8% year-on-year. RPK also 
rose 10.1% year-on-year between the Middle East 
and Asia, surpassing 2019 levels by 3.1%. 
Emerging aviation markets grew the most in 2024. 
Countries in Northern Africa, Eastern and Central 
Europe, and Central Asia have outpaced the 
industry average. Traffic in the Southwest Pacific 
also exceeded the global mean, reflecting a 
resurgence in travel within the broader Asia Pacific 
region. In contrast, while the Middle East has 
become a crucial part of global air traffic, the 
region saw only modest growth in international 
passengers in 2024. 
 
Global markets
Over the past year, the global economy has been 
remarkably stable. Unemployment rates in 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development (OECD) countries were below historical 
averages, global inflation rates continued to fall, 
and ticket prices moderated, fuelling demand. The 
passenger-market figures of the International Air 
Transport Association (IATA) for the full year 2024, 
showed demand at an all-time high. Total full-year 
traffic in the year (measured in revenue passenger 
kilometres or RPKs) rose 10.4% compared to 2023. 
This was 3.8% above pre-pandemic (2019) levels. 
Total capacity, measured in ASK, was up 8.7%. The 
overall load factor reached 83.5%, a record for 
full-year traffic.
International full-year traffic in 2024 increased 13.6% 
compared to 2023, and capacity rose 12.8%. 
Domestic full-year traffic rose 5.7% compared to the 
previous year, while capacity expanded by 2.5%. 
December 2024 was a strong finish to the year with 
overall demand rising 8.6% year-on-year, and 
capacity grew by 5.6%. International demand rose by 
10.6% and domestic demand by 5.5%. The December 
load factor reached a new record level of 84%. 
As Willie Walsh, IATA’s Director General, observed, 
“2024 made it absolutely clear that people want to 
travel, and airlines met that strong demand with 
record efficiency. Aviation growth reverberates 
across societies and economies at all levels”.
With this growth comes the need to keep aviation 
as safe as possible, and to continue aiming for net 
zero. On the latter point, Walsh commented, “Less 
than 0.5% of fuel needs were met with SAF in 2024. 
SAF is in short supply and costs must come down. 
Governments could fortify their national energy 
security and unblock this problem by prioritising the 
renewable fuel production from which SAF is derived”.
External environment
In the middle of everywhere
The restoration of connectivity is powering the 
global economy as people travel to do business, 
further their education, take hard-earned 
vacations and much more. But to maximise  
the benefits of air travel in the post-pandemic 
world, governments need to take a strategic 
approach. That means providing cost-efficient 
infrastructure to meet demand, incentivising  
SAF production to meet our net-zero carbon 
emission goal by 2050 and adopting regulations 
that deliver a clear cost benefit.
Willie Walsh IATA Director General
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 27   26   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
Importantly for growth, Kazakhstani citizens’ 
propensity to travel, while increasing, remains 
low in comparison to peer countries with 
similar levels of GDP per capita. For example, 
the penetration figure (seats sold divided by 
population) for Kazakhstan was 0.23 before 
the launch of FlyArystan, and thereafter 
doubled to 0.46. Now, the combined domestic 
and international propensity of Kazakhstan is 
0.6, but still low compared to similar countries 
such as Malaysia (1.1), Turkey (1.2) and Mexico 
(0.8). As an example of this in practice, the 
strong demand within Kazakhstan for leisure 
destinations in foreign countries, which 
boomed during the pandemic, has shown no 
signs of abating – and according to the IATA 
forecast, propensity for air travel in Kazakhstan 
should reach 1.75 by 2030, based on 
Kazakhstan’s 2030 GDP per capita forecast. 
Kazakhstan began its visa-free programme in 
2014, starting with 19 countries. This initial 
liberalisation brought an approximate 50% 
increase in visitor numbers. Since then, the 
list has significantly expanded, and in 2024, 
Macao, Morocco, Sri Lanka, Thailand and 
Vietnam were added with a stay period of up 
to 60 days. Additionally, visa-free programmes 
exceeded 101 countries, and e-visas are 
offered for another 109 countries. Every year 
the list of visa-free countries for Kazakhstan 
expands, providing citizens with more 
opportunities for travelling. Open-skies 
agreements foster competition and flexibility 
in international air travel by allowing airlines 
from different countries the right to fly in and 
out of each other’s nations. In October 2024, 
the Kazakh Government included Kostanay 
and Uralsk airports in its open-skies policy, 
and then Atyrau and Kyzylorda airports in 
January 2025, making a total of 24 airports. 
Open-skies agreements on a mutual basis 
were fixed with Malaysia, Qatar, UAE, USA 
and Vietnam, while a draft of Horizontal 
Agreement with the EU was initialled on  
16 October 2024, which will allow every 
European airline to fly from anywhere  
in Europe to all cities in Kazakhstan.
Global affairs and industry trends
In 2024, Brent crude oil dropped by around 
20% over the year, due to over-supply as the 
US affirmed its position as the world’s 
leading oil producer, and to shifting demand 
for different energy products, especially in 
China. Lower oil prices will strengthen 
oil-importing countries’ financial positions, 
offering an opportunity to redirect fossil-fuel 
subsidies towards renewable energy 
production, supporting aviation’s energy 
transition. More immediately, airlines will 
benefit from lower crude oil prices as long as 
jet fuel prices decline in parallel. Fuel is their 
largest cost component, representing around 
30% of total costs. 
Another major influence on the industry is 
seasonal demand, with busier summers and 
quiet winters. This is due largely to leisure 
travel’s increasing share of the total market 
– most pronounced in Europe, but affecting 
many regions. Airlines have responded by 
operating more routes at greater frequency 
during peak periods, and so earning a 
disproportionate amount of their revenue 
during the summer. 
Kazakhstan and Central Asia 
The domestic Kazakhstan market
Kazakhstan’s air transportation market 
continues to break records. In 2024, 
Kazakhstani airlines carried a record 14.7 
million passengers, 10.6% more than the 
previous year (13.3 million passengers in 
2023), according to the Bureau of National 
Statistics of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
Passenger traffic growth remains in double 
digits, which indicates a high demand for air 
transportation. According to the Ministry of 
Transport, Kazakhstan’s airports handled 29.7 
million passengers (+14% year-on-year), 
including international airlines, which hold 
about 50% of the market. Almaty airport has 
set a new record, serving 11.4 million 
passengers (+20% on 2023), 78% higher than 
the pre-pandemic figures. This makes it the 
largest aviation hub in the region of Central 
Asia, the Caspian Sea and Caucasus. The 
capital’s airport in Astana handled 8.3 million 
passengers (+11% year-on-year).
The growth of passenger traffic continues to 
be stimulated by the extension of the Open 
Skies programme until 2027, as well as the 
increasing popularity of air transport in the 
country. In addition, there are many other 
signs of the potential of increased growth:  
the flight safety level rose from 74% to 82%; 
Kazakhstani airlines resumed flights to the 
European Union countries; and the domestic 
air fleet is growing, with the number of 
aircraft increasing by 13% year-on-year. 
Six airlines currently operate 56 domestic 
routes, and international air traffic has 
expanded to 31 countries and 58 cities, with 
flights on 119 routes. The sector requires 
500-600 new specialist workers each year,  
to add to its current workforce of 23,000. The 
industry is rapidly transforming digitally, with 
an electronic document-management system 
for cargo, an e-identity card system for 
passengers, and biometric identification. By 
2030, Kazakhstan aims to increase passenger 
traffic from 14.7 million to 26 million and cargo 
volumes from 170,000 to 500,000 tonnes, plus 
expand the aircraft fleet from 104 to 221, and 
grow international routes from 119 to 200.
External environment continued External environment continued 
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202428   29   
Growing connectivity
Kazakhstan is strategically located within easy 
access of two of the largest aviation markets 
in the world, India and China, and relatively 
close to the Middle East and Europe.
Flights to Europe have not yet reached 
pre-pandemic levels owing to several 
contributing factors: restricted traffic from 
Russia; increased flying time due to avoiding 
Russian airspace; and reduced labour traffic 
due to the completion of a major domestic 
oil project. However, non-stop Air Astana 
flights from Almaty to Frankfurt and 
Heathrow have been made possible by 
installing a third fuel tank in the aircraft. 
The drop in European traffic has been more 
than compensated by strong growth in the 
Middle East, Southeast Asia and India, as 
Kazakhstan and Central Asia became 
attractive destinations for many airlines.  
In addition, it has been helped by the return 
of the Chinese market, facilitated by the 
visa-free regime introduced in 2024. 
According to IATA, the overall number of 
airline seats offered to Kazakhstan in the first 
six months of 2024 compared with the same 
period in 2019 increased by 143%, and the 
number of passengers by 155%.
The scheduled capacity between China and 
Kazakhstan in 2024 increased 140% from 2023, 
demonstrating an interest in Kazakhstan as  
a destination by Chinese airlines. This was 
boosted by strengthening Government and 
business relationships, and mutual tourism 
campaigns between the two countries, which 
will continue throughout 2025. Air Astana also 
resumed its Astana – Seoul passenger flight in 
mid-2024 after more than a four year pause. In 
addition, total capacity between Kazakhstan 
and India has increased 57% from 2023  
and 125% from 2019, reflecting the recent 
growth of the Indian economy. The flight time 
between Delhi and Almaty is only 3.5 hours, 
making Almaty a desirable destination as it 
offers a comfortable climate for Indian tourists. 
Indian citizens are now among the top three 
foreign passport holders on all Air Astana 
flights, the others being Russian and Chinese. 
Opportunity in Central Asia
IATA has stated that Central Asia and the 
Caucasus region, with its population of 97 
million, will be the fastest-growing aviation 
region in the world in the coming five to ten 
years. It is a significantly underserved market 
where the Air Astana Group can help improve 
air-travel connectivity alongside new market 
entrants, who will serve to increase the 
popularity of travel in the region. 
Low-cost carriers growth in  
Central Asia
A 2024 Asian Development Bank study on the 
CAREC region highlights the astounding 
growth in LCCs in recent years. The CAREC 
region includes the five Central Asian countries 
– Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, 
Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan – as well as 
Azerbaijan, Georgia, Mongolia and Pakistan 
(the Inner Mongolia and Xinjiang regions of 
China are also part of CAREC, but not included 
in the study). It states the overall LCC market 
in Central Asia more than tripled in size from 
2019 to 2022, making it the fastest-growing 
low-cost travel market in the world. In the 
wider CAREC region, the LCC market grew by 
60% from 2019 to 2022. The rapid LCC growth 
during the pandemic helped a quick recovery 
of the CAREC air transport market, and Central 
Asia was the only region in the world with 
seat capacity above 2019 levels by 2022. 
FlyArystan is the largest LCC in CAREC, with  
a significant share of the region’s LCC seat 
capacity as of the latest available data. 
Pakistan’s Airblue had about a 13% share, 
while Uzbekistan Express and Buta Airways 
had 4% each. Over half the market was 
controlled by foreign LCCs, led by Flydubai 
with about a 17% share and Air Arabia with  
a 10% share.
The report concludes that “rapid LCC growth 
over the remainder of this decade is critical 
for CAREC to achieve aspirations to improve 
connectivity – within and outside the region 
– and further grow tourism in the region. LCCs 
generate massive economic benefits as 
lower fares make air travel more affordable, 
stimulating demand in both the domestic and 
international markets. With higher volumes 
of traffic, there are more tourists staying in 
hotels, eating out, and visiting local 
attractions. More passenger traffic also 
supports expansion of airports and the 
overall aviation ecosystem, creating jobs”. 
It also points out that LCCs cannot thrive 
without a supportive regulatory environment 
of more-liberal open-skies policies, common 
in other regions, which would ensure airlines 
are always able to operate between their 
home country and another country, or 
between two countries, neither of which is 
their home country. High airport costs are 
another major impediment to LCC growth in 
CAREC, as most CAREC airports have charges, 
fees and taxes for international flights well 
above global averages. Lower airport costs 
would enable lower fares, lead to higher 
volumes of traffic, and attract more LCCs.
Global aviation 
outlook
As at 2024, the airline 
industry can turn its 
back on the Covid-
induced crisis.
According to IATA, over 
the next two decades, 
the number of global 
passengers is projected 
to increase at an average 
annual rate of 3.8%, 
leading to a net addition 
of over 4.1 billion 
passenger journeys by 
2043 compared to 2023. 
This would bring the total 
global number of 
passenger journeys to 7.9 
billion in 2043. While the 
European and North 
American markets are 
expected to see modest 
increases in demand, the 
Asia Pacific region is 
forecast to record the 
most significant rise in 
passenger numbers, 
contributing more than 
half of the net increase 
in global passenger 
numbers by 2043, with 
an average yearly 
growth rate of 5.1%. 
Economic expansion, 
improved living 
standards, and 
favourable demographic 
trends are expected to 
contribute to this 
increase.
 
Cargo
Global overview
In 2024, airlines moved more air cargo than 
ever before, boosted by healthy cross-border 
e-commerce, capacity limitations in ocean 
shipping and an overall global trade in goods 
that grew by 3.6% in the year. Full-year demand 
for 2024, measured in cargo tonne-kilometres 
(CTK), increased 11.3% from 2023 (12.2% for 
international operations), exceeding the record 
volumes set in 2021. In fact, December 2024 
marked 17 months of consecutive growth in 
demand. According to Brendan Sullivan, IATA’s 
Head of Cargo: “It does appear that there has 
been a structural change for the better since 
the pandemic”.
Importantly, it was a year of profitable growth, 
with airspace restrictions limiting capacity on 
some key long-haul routes to Asia, which helped 
to keep yields at exceptionally high levels, on 
average 39% higher than 2019. Thus, the cargo 
market provided significant support to airline 
success in 2024. The sector now comprises 15.6% 
of industry revenues compared with 12% in 
2019. Full-year capacity in 2024, measured in 
available cargo tonne-kilometres (ACTK), 
increased 7.4% from 2023 (9.6% for international 
operations). Average Cargo Load Factor (CLF) for 
the year ended at 45.9%.
Regional variations
The market has grown across all regions and 
principal routes, with most major trade lanes 
experiencing growth. Within Asia, cargo trade 
grew 11% year-on-year and has grown for 14 
consecutive months. The Asia-North America 
trade lane, the largest in cargo volume, saw an 
8% annual rise in cargo demand. The Europe-
Asia corridor grew 10.3%, marking 22 months of 
uninterrupted growth, with 2024 consistently in 
double digits. The ‘within Europe’ route posted  
a 9.1% increase, and the Europe- North America 
lane grew by 5.5%. The Europe-Middle East route 
saw a remarkable 26% year-on-year surge.
Trends and issues
E-commerce will represent a growing portion  
of air cargo business. Currently at about 20% of 
cargo business worldwide, it is expected to grow 
to at least a third of all cargo shipments. By 2027, 
e-commerce generally is expected to be an USD 
8 trillion market, so airlines could reap a 
significant reward if it can prove its speed and 
transparency. Brendan Sullivan observes: 
“Shippers and their customers need the goods  
to travel quickly and safely, and to know where 
those goods are every step of the way”. Success 
will come through digitalisation, and air cargo’s 
efforts here are gaining momentum, with ONE 
Record, an open-source messaging standard that 
replaces legacy methods. Companies must have 
ONE Record in use from 1 January 2026, and 
many are involved in trials at an advanced stage. 
Artificial intelligence (AI) is also beginning to 
replace manual processes, and can help with  
the safety and speed of decisions, and so 
improve productivity. IATA set up the Air Cargo 
Digitalisation Leadership Charter in 2024, currently 
with 17 signatories. The North Asia Digital Cargo 
Alliance supports this, and IATA is working with 
airlines in the region to see how ONE Record 
might perform in the Chinese market, among 
other matters. Digitalisation will also help the 
sector’s sustainability efforts, for example by 
saving paper. In addition, more-efficient use of 
packaging space will make air cargo more 
productive and more sustainable. 
Outlook
The outlook for 2025 remains positive, given the 
ongoing challenges in maritime shipping, and 
with oil prices on a downward trajectory and 
global trade continuing to grow. However, IATA 
estimates growth will reduce to 5.8%, which 
would mean revenues could reach USD 157 
billion. Also, the air cargo industry will surely  
be challenged to adapt to unfolding geopolitical 
shifts. The threat of trade tariffs being imposed 
by the US would affect the amount of goods 
carried in the long term. Tariffs also need to be 
seen as part of the bigger customs regulation 
picture, with clearance for shipments a sector 
pain point. It could be that new tariffs promote 
fresh discussions, greater digitalisation, and a 
speedier process. “The industry is more resilient 
and adaptable than ever”, says Brendan Sullivan, 
“so, whether it is geopolitical tensions, trade 
tariffs or maritime cargo volatility, air cargo will 
be able to respond appropriately”.
The drop in European traffic has been more than 
compensated by strong growth in the Middle East, 
Southeast Asia and India, as Kazakhstan and Central  
Asia became attractive destinations for many airlines. 
External environment continued External environment continued 
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202430   31   
  
 SHAREHOLDERS
PASSENGERS
PEOPLE
SUPPLIERS AND 
PARTNERS 
  
GROW
TH                              EFFICIENCY                         EXCELLENCE
Business model continued
LONG-HAUL
 ROUTES
INTERNATIONAL
REGIONAL  
ROUTES
DOMESTIC
ROUTES
CHARTER
LOW
-COST
SERVICES
CARGO
Governance
The Air Astana Group is the largest airline 
group in Central Asia and the Caucasus by 
revenue and fleet size. We provide scheduled, 
point-to-point and transit, short-haul and 
long-haul air travel and cargo on domestic, 
intra-regional and international routes across 
Central Asia, the Caucasus, the Gulf, Europe 
(including Turkey), the Middle East and Asia 
(including India and China). Targeting different 
regions and customer markets, our two 
differentiated, but complementary, brands – 
Air Astana and FlyArystan together have a 
domestic market share of 68% and 
international market share of 38%. 
A strategy to achieve our vision 
Our ambition is for the Air Astana Group to 
establish a position as one of the finest airline 
groups in the world. Our strategy to achieve this is 
built on three key pillars: growth, efficiency and 
excellence. 
Maximising opportunity
Air travel between the 24 commercial airports in 
Kazakhstan offers a compelling alternative to road 
and rail travel across the country’s vast land mass, 
and will be a significant contributor to the Group’s 
future growth. Outside the borders of Kazakhstan, 
we are already serving the neighbouring Central 
Asia and Caucasus region, with its large 
populations and developing economies. Further 
afield, we now focus on less price-sensitive, 
lifestyle destinations, including Georgia, Greece, 
the Maldives, Montenegro, the Red Sea, Thailand, 
Turkey and Vietnam. 
Strong financial discipline  
With operational efficiency and excellence  
at its heart, we maintain rigorous financial 
management, which is key to achieving one of  
the lowest unit-cost performances (measured by 
CASK) among both of our airlines’ international 
competitors. This enables us to compete 
effectively on air fares, stimulating market 
demand and supporting growth in market share. 
Our strong balance sheet is a source of confidence 
and provides assurance to weather any crisis.
WHAT WE DO
ALL UNDERPINNED BY OUR VALUES
RESOURCES AND INPUTS HOW WE DO IT
Brand and reputation
With over 20 years’ experience and major investment in 
both our reputation and brands, Air Astana and FlyArystan, 
the Air Astana Group has established positive brand 
recognition. This translates into significant commercial value 
and helps foster good relationships with our stakeholders. 
Financial resources
We have demonstrated operational and financial resilience 
throughout Covid, the Russia-Ukraine conflict, industry 
challenges with Pratt & Whitney engine issues, and supply-
chain constraints. Through proactive management and 
financial discipline, we have built an efficient cost structure 
that enables our airlines to outperform most of their peers. 
People and culture
Our focus on equal opportunities, training and development 
helps retain and attract new employees. Through our corporate 
values and promotion of a culture of recognition, we have 
created a positive work environment for our 6,546 employees. 
Modern fleet
We are simplifying our fleet structure by focusing on the 
Airbus family. The fleet had an average age of 5.9 years at 
the end of 2024. We benefit from reduced maintenance 
costs, optimised fuel consumption and reduced CO2-
emission levels, which positions us competitively among 
comparable international network and LCC carriers. 
Service excellence
We are known for outstanding excellence in customer service. 
In 2024, the Air Astana airline was, for the thirteenth year 
running, acknowledged as the Best Airline in Central Asia and 
CIS in the Skytrax World Airline Awards, and FlyArystan was for 
the second time awarded best Low-Cost Carrier in Central Asia 
and CIS.
Partnerships
Our partnership strategy is to expand co-operation through 
codesharing and interline arrangements, to extend the reach of 
our airlines and enrich our passenger offering through reciprocal 
initiatives, such as loyalty programmes and benefits, and 
enhanced airport services. 
We create employment and support the 
development of local social and economic 
infrastructures in Kazakhstan, while ensuring  
we meet all relevant legislative and regulatory 
requirements. 
Mutual respect for our suppliers and business 
partners is key to developing positive, long-term 
relationships, with beneficial outcomes for all 
parties.   
Taxes paid in 2024
USD 102.3m
Our employees are central to the Group’s success  
and we reward their loyalty and dedication by 
offering competitive salary packages and  
professional development, as well as providing  
for their wellbeing. 
The total proposed dividend of USD 38.2 million  
(ordinary dividend of USD 13.0 million and special 
dividend of USD 25.2million).
Percentage of purchases 
from local suppliers for 
2024 
32%
 REGULATORS AND  
LOCAL AUTHORITIES
GOVERNMENT,
Investments in training  
in 2024
USD 5.7m
Whether flying on our full-service or low-cost  
carrier, our passengers receive the award-winning 
standards of hospitality, comfort and safety we are 
renowned for. 
Dividends proposed 
for 2024
USD  38.2m
Air Astana  
CSAT Rating
for 2024
75
FlyArystan 
CSAT Rating
for 2024
84
Hospitable    We treat every person with whom we come into contact, 
customer or colleague, as a guest. We are warm, friendly 
and tactful, always willing to help.
Efficient
  We are professional people who produce high-quality 
results with knowledge and style. We maximise our skills 
and use our time efficiently.
Active
  We anticipate and respond to the needs of customers and 
colleagues. We do things to the very best of our ability and 
are always looking for ways to improve.
Reliable 
  We produce reliable and consistent quality in all of our 
activities. We always keep our promises.
Trustworthy
  We are honest people who never compromise our 
integrity. Customers and colleagues can trust us.
Business model 
Building strong brands and  
lasting stakeholder trust 
DELIVERING VALUE FOR OUR...
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 33   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202432   
Strategy
Achieving  
sustainable  
growth 
Our ambition is to establish the Air Astana Group as 
one of the finest airline groups in the world. To 
achieve this, our strategy is built on three pillars – 
growth, efficiency and excellence – and supported by 
our focus on fleet expansion, advanced technical 
resources and world-leading training facilities. 
Working with this strategy and focus in mind 
enhances both our airlines, full-service Air Astana 
and low-cost FlyArystan, which combine to offer the 
widest range of growth opportunities in domestic, 
intra-region and international markets.
Efficiency
Strengthening resources and expertise
To improve our outstanding operational efficiency yet further, 
we are investing in young, modern and fuel-efficient aircraft, 
expanding our in-house maintenance capabilities, enhancing our 
training facilities, establishing our own Ground Services subsidiary, 
and implementing new technologies across the business including 
installation of a third fuel tank on the Group’s fleet of A321LR, at its 
own technical facilities, which widened network capabilities and 
brought new destinations within extended range.
2024 HIGHLIGHTS
Flight simulator training
The Group’s A320 Full-Flight Simulator – one of the first in Central Asia 
– is currently at full utilisation. We received a second Full Flight Simulator 
in February 2025, which should be commissioned by the end of the year 
increasing capacity, extending operational efficiency and potentially 
generating revenue from external pilot training. 
Benefiting from in-house C-check operations
Air Astana covers all C-checks for the Airbus fleet, bringing many 
benefits other than saving costs. It brings enhanced control over our 
maintenance work and scheduling, and makes more-efficient use of the 
maintenance centre. It also improves staff skills through hands-on 
experience and training, as well as creating new job opportunities and 
contributing to the development of Kazakhstan’s aviation industry.
Successful execution of the mitigation plan for Pratt & Whitney 
engine issues
The Group recognised the Pratt & Whitney issue early and took proactive 
action ahead of the wider industry, successfully implementing an 
engine resting programme during the low season, performing 93 
engine replacements in 2024, therefore ensuring high fleet utilisation 
during peak season and reducing the impact on overall performance.
2025 priorities
   Expand our internal maintenance capability with investment in 
second hangar at Astana and a new hangar at Almaty airport
   Commission the second Full Flight Simulator
   Continue our Pilot ab-initio Cadet Programme, aiming to increase  
the total intake to around 40
   Continue to establish a Ground Services subsidiary, Air Astana 
Terminal Services, to ensure a high-quality customer service and 
manage key costs
   Implement solutions for fuel consumption and reduced carbon emissions.
   Implement a crew rostering pairing optimiser
ExcellenceGrowth
Enhancing the customer experience
We continue to review the customer experience regularly. Besides
making inflight and ground experience improvements based on
customer feedback, we launched an upgraded website, providing 
a more intuitive experience for customers. We will launch a new 
app in the first half of 2025. We revamped the Nomad Club 
frequent flyer programme and integrated it with the new website. 
We also opened our Shanyraq business lounge at Almaty 
International Airport and revamped our lounge at Astana Airport.
2024 HIGHLIGHTS
Excellence recognised
In 2024, Air Astana was named by Skytrax the Best Airline in Central 
Asia & CIS for the thirteenth year running and received the Best Airline 
Staff Service in Central Asia & CIS award for the eighth time. Plus the 
Airline Passenger Experience Association (APEX) award for Best Overall 
Airline in Central Asia, and an APEX Five Star award in the Major Airlines 
category. FlyArystan won the Best Low-Cost Carrier in Central Asia & CIS 
award for the second time and completed a Skytrax Audit in November 
2024, retaining its four-star LCC status. Air Astana Group is now a 
certified ACCA (Association of Chartered Certified Accountants) Approved 
Employer at Platinum level. 
Exceeding passenger expectations
We also enhance the passenger experience through our use of modern 
aircraft and advanced booking systems. And for us, excellence depends 
on building sustainability into our business.
Committed to our ESG agenda
Our Low-Carbon Development Programme (LCDP) for 2023–2032 is 
consistent with Kazakhstan’s aim to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. 
We are updating the LCDP to reflect our new commitment to achieve 
net-zero emissions by 2050, and have set credible near-term targets for 
the next five years. We also participated in a comprehensive research 
study to assess the potential for SAF production in Kazakhstan. After 
year end, we became the first airline in Central Asia and the CIS to join 
IATA CO₂ Connect, and will provide operational data to enhance the 
accuracy of emissions calculations.
 
2025 priorities
   Continue to establish strategic partnerships and expand into the 
neighbouring megamarket. We signed an MoU with China’s 
powerhouse airline – China Southern Airlines – for codeshares across 
China, Kazakhstan and, with agreement, other countries in East Asia, 
Central Asia and the Caucasus 
   Launch the new app 
   Lobby for Jet-A1 production in Kazakhstan and conversion of key airports
   Participate in IATA’s Integrated Sustainability Programme – Sustainable 
Procurement Pilot – to enhance procurement practices and ensure they 
also support environmental conservation and social responsibility
Growth Eﬃciency Excellence
Building our network
As we expand our fleet, we are extending the reach of our flights 
to make the most of growth opportunities across domestic, 
regional and international routes. We are also adding to the 
frequency of our schedules, as well as developing non-core 
growth avenues such as cargo and charter.
2024 HIGHLIGHTS
Continuing fleet expansion
In July 2024, an agreement for the operating lease of seven Airbus 
A321neo LR was signed with deliveries starting from 2026 – our 
largest-ever single order – we are also expecting three 787-9 
Dreamliners, bringing us closer to our target of 84 by 2029.
Effective yield management
The Group’s dual-brand model provides flexibility in allocating resources 
to higher RASK routes. This, combined with its unique geographical 
location, allows the Group to continue to balance passenger growth 
with a relentless focus on operational cost efficiency, growing largely in 
higher margin international routes.
Demand from developing markets
In growing aviation markets – our domestic market, Asia and the Middle 
East – we experienced particularly strong demand, which we were able 
to meet, again due to our unique geographical location.
Adding new services
We announced new lifestyle services to destinations in Asia, while 
further boosting our presence in the Middle East and additional services 
to Saudi Arabia.
2025 priorities
   We plan to expend our fleet to 63 aircraft by the end of 2025. We plan 
to expand our route network even further, in domestic, near-home 
and adjacent international markets, and to increase density on 
existing high-demand routes
   Significant opportunities will continue to arise due to untapped 
potential for air travel in Kazakhstan, and to growing demand in the 
rest of Central Asia and the Caucasus. We also have easy access to the 
megamarkets of India and China. We will make the most of all these 
opportunities 
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 35   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202434   
fulﬁlling our promises
                          6.75
                       6.58
                      6.38  
                              1,308
                        1,164                       
                1,016
                          338.6 
             291.6                    
      260.1   
                         25.9                         
                      25.1                   
                          25.6
                          19.3
                     17 .7                   
                15.9
                          83.5
 82.8                   
                         82.7
                         57
              49                
 
      43
                               16.1
                         14.6
                  13.2                
               9.0
             8.1
        7 .3             
 
                  6.02
                5.86                       
             5.63
The Group is constantly reviewing initiatives and new technologies to achieve 
operational cost efficiencies (referenced above in Operational Efficiency), support margin 
growth and keep unit costs at a very competitive industry level. The Group’s highly 
effective cost-management programme ensured only a moderate increase in full-year 
CASK* of 2.7%, which was broadly offset by the growth in RASK by 2.6%. The RASK-
CASK index differential improved progressively over the quarters from negative 1.9pp  
in Q1 2024 to positive 4pp in Q4, resulting in a broadly neutral RASK-CASK differential for 
the year, ahead of guidance.
Group RASK* improved progressively 
throughout the year, growing by 2.6% during 
2024 (and 5.8% from 2022), due to proactive 
capacity management at both airline brands.
Higher RPK growth than ASK growth 
over the years resulted in improved 
load factor by 0.7 of a percentage  
point in 2024. 
Fleet expansion aligns with long-term  
growth objectives, enabling increased  
route coverage, operational flexibility,  
and improved service reliability.
Stable capacity growth over the years. 
Capacity continues to be allocated to 
ensure achieving the highest margin 
and mitigate industry-wide cost 
inflation.
Growing demand in 2024 for air travel 
across Kazakhstan, China and Far East, 
Middle East, India.
The Group added nearly a million 
passengers in 2024 and about 750,000 
in 2023 with an increasing load factor, 
thanks to growing demand for air 
travel across Kazakhstan, our extended 
home market and nearby megamarkets.
Strong revenue growth over the years
resulted from proactive capacity
management through its allocation to 
higher margin routes. Revenue and other 
income* in 2024 increased by 12.4%  
from 2023 and by 28.7% from 2022.  
In 2024 Adjusted EBITDAR* increased 
from 2023 and 2022 by 16.1% and 30.2% 
respectively. This was a result of 
proactive work early in the year to 
manage industry-wide cost and revenue 
pressures as well as capacity constraints.
The Group’s Adjusted EBITDAR margin  
is among the highest in the industry.  
The Group remains on track to meet  
its medium-term expectation of a 
mid-to-high 20s EBITDAR margin.
Key performance indicators
Measuring our performance 
We believe that our KPIs are an invaluable tool for tracking our  
performance over a three-year period, both for us as a business and  
to give stakeholders an accurate picture of our development.
Key performance indicators continued
Link to strategy
*   Excluding non-recurring items: Net IPO related expe nses of USD 1.8 million in 2023/USD 12.9 million in 2024. Revenue from the extraordinary market event i mpacted by partial mobilisation in Russia 
of USD 11.0 million in 2023. RASK adjustment of USD 4.2 million in 2024. Donations of USD 2.7 million in connection with the flood situation in Kazakhsta n in 2024.
RASK (US cents)
   6.75 
CASK (US cents)
   6.02
TOTAL REVENUE (USDm)
   1,308  
ADJUSTED EBITDAR (USDm)
   338.6
ASK (bn)
   19.3
LOAD FACTOR (%)
   83.5
ADJUSTED EBITDAR MARGIN (%)
   25.9%
RPK (bn)
   16.1
PASSENGERS (m)
   9.0
FLEET SIZE
   57
2024
2023
2022
2024
2023
2022
2024
2023
2022
2024
2023
2022
2024
2023
2022
2024
2023
2022
2024
2023
2022
2024
2023
2022
2024
2023
2022
2024
2023
2022
FINANCIAL KPI’s* NON-FINANCIAL KPI’s
   
Growth Efficiency Excellence
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 37   
fulﬁlling our promises
36   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
Our people
Overview 
The expertise, dedication and skills of our workforce are vital to our 
success. Recognising their importance, we provide a safe and healthy 
work environment, offering competitive pay and ensuring equal 
opportunities for all. We support our employees’ professional growth 
through extensive training programmes and tailored development plans, 
with strong business ethics and corporate values underpinning our 
approach to employee wellbeing. 
Material needs 
► Remuneration 
► Equal opportunities for all genders, different ages and nationalities 
► Growth and personal development 
► Training and learning opportunities 
► Safe and healthy environment 
► Wellbeing and mental health 
► Business ethics 
► Corporate values
How we engaged in 2024 
► Employee pulse surveys (to measure emotional concerns and 
identify worries) 
► Management conference with YouTube broadcast for all employees 
► Team-building activities 
► Face-to-face communication with management 
► Employee Recognition Programme
► Talents Programme 
► Internal mobile app
► Corporate magazine 
► Performance reviews 
► Whistleblowing line for reporting violations of legislation and the 
Code of Conduct 
► Feedback platform for mutual recognition among employees 
Outcome of our engagement 
► In 2024, our employee engagement level was 4.02 out of  
5 with a record high number of respondents – 3,071
► The engagement ratio, which is the second most important 
indicator, was 4.17 engaged employees for each actively 
disengaged
Shareholders
Overview 
Our relationship with our shareholders is built on a foundation of trust 
and long-term collaboration, strengthened by their support for the 
sustainable and steady growth of our business. We focus on increasing 
the Group’s value while considering environmental, social and human 
factors. As a publicly listed company on three stock exchanges, we 
uphold the highest standards of disclosure and transparency, ensuring 
all shareholders have equal access to the Group’s information.
Material needs 
► Financial and sustainable performance and growth 
► Transparency 
► Corporate values and business ethics 
► ESG performance
How we engaged in 2024
► Shareholders meeting(s) 
► Attending industry сonferences and forums 
► Quarterly earnings reports and publications 
► Publications on stock exchanges 
► Presentations to existing investors 
► Conference calls and webcasts
► Direct communication 
Outcome of our engagement 
► There were five General Meetings of Shareholders in 2024.  
For more information, please refer to pages 102-103 
► Our numerous engagement with capital market participants, 
including existing investors and analysts allows  
to keep the market updated on recent Group’s developments 
Suppliers and business partners
Overview 
Our network includes a diverse range of suppliers and business partners 
– from innovative start-ups and small enterprises to large multinational 
corporations. By maintaining an open and efficient procurement process, 
and establishing mutually beneficial agreements, we have built strong, 
lasting relationships with our suppliers and partners.
Material needs 
► Long-term positive relationships 
► Business ethics 
► Compliance with regulations 
► Procurement practices 
How we engaged in 2024 
► Code of Conduct (Code of Ethics) 
► Direct correspondence 
► Social media 
► Website 
► Whistleblowing line for reporting violations of legislation and the 
Code of Conduct 
► Visit to Maintenance, Repair, Overhaul (MRO) conferences and 
industry exhibitions 
► Feedback surveys 
► ESG awards
► Inviting core suppliers to Company events (such as new aircraft 
presentations) 
Outcome of our engagement 
► Flexible supply-chain processes enabled us to re-route major supplies 
to comply with UK, EU and US sanctions and make sure our 
operations were not jeopardised 
► Continued control of expenses and overheads within the whole 
supply chain to support profitability. Monitoring of all processes and 
those of freight forwarders to keep the supply chain as lean as 
possible
► We keep engaging with our strategic service suppliers to stay abreast 
of trends and changes in the industry
► Air Astana Group’s ESG awards aimed at recognising the merits of 
partners in various nominations as well as raising awareness of the 
Group’s ESG initiatives
Government, regulators and local 
authorities
Overview 
Our partnerships with government bodies, regulatory agencies and 
local authorities are essential to fulfilling our operational mandate.  
We contribute to national and local tax revenues while supporting 
social and economic development by creating jobs and enhancing 
infrastructure.
Material needs 
► Compliance with legislation and regulatory requirements 
► Compliance with the anti-corruption legislation of the Republic  
of Kazakhstan 
► Business ethics 
► Safety during flights 
► Health and safety of employees 
► Sustainability 
How we engaged in 2024 
► Face-to-face communication 
► Working groups 
► Direct correspondence 
► Phone calls 
► Industry conferences and forums 
► Audits 
► Reports
Outcome of our engagement 
► As part of the Interdepartmental Working Group under the Aviation 
Administration of Kazakhstan, we continued implementing the 
Strategic Concept for Development of Transport and Logistics 
Potential of the Republic of Kazakhstan until 2030
► We contributed to the development and modification legislation 
and standards based on the best international practice
► Protecting the Company’s interests through active engagement on 
national and Eurasian-level aviation and airport infrastructure 
matters 
► We achieved successful results in negotiations with South Korea, 
Vietnam, China and other countries, allowing us to significantly 
expand our international route network 
► Simplifying legislative procedures related to the requirement for 
sanitary certificates for the entry of new aircraft into service
Link to strategy Link to strategy Link to strategy Link to strategy
Growth Growth Efficiency Growth EfficiencyGrowth Efficiency Efficiency Excellence
Sustainable resources and relationships
Understanding what matters  
to our stakeholders
With all our stakeholders – whether they are affected by our operations or influence our long-term objectives – 
understanding their needs and expectations is essential to sustaining our licence to operate and ensuring our continued 
success. By encouraging open communication, we have built strong and trusting relationships with all our stakeholders.
Sustainable resources and relationships Understanding what matters to our stakeholders continued
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202438   39   
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Passengers
Overview 
Our customers are at the heart of our business. As we expand our 
network and operations through our ‘Going Global’ strategy, we 
continue to provide an outstanding travel experience that reflects 
Kazakhstan’s unique identity while incorporating the best international 
service standards. Our focus is on safety, comfort and seamless service 
across every customer touchpoint – on the ground, in the air and 
through digital platforms.
Material needs 
► Safety
► On-time performance 
► High-quality services 
► Sustainability
► Affordability 
► Availability of ticketing offices at airports and in cities
► Accessibility
► Enhanced digital experience through an upgraded website and app
► Revamped Nomad Club frequent flyer programme with a 
spend-based accrual
► Ancillary services 
► In November 2024, Air Astana opened its dedicated Shanyraq 
business lounge in the new terminal at Almaty International 
Airport
► Revamping of The Shanyraq business lounge at Astana Airport 
which resumed welcoming customers in July
How we engaged in 2024 
► 24/7 call centre
► Digital channels like Web Chat, and an automated WhatsApp  
chat-bot with live-consultant options
► The Customer Help Centre 
► Service recovery Unit for elite Nomad Club members
► Customer-experience evaluation surveys 
► Enhancing codeshare and interline partnerships 
► Extended inflight entertainment content 
► ‘Tengri’ inflight magazine 
► Social media 
► Whistleblowing line for reporting violations of legislation and 
the Code of Conduct 
► Quality and standards monitoring by Inflight Coaching team 
FlyArystan keeps improving customer experience through 
digital transformation: 
► Self-service kiosks iJan at all domestic airports
► Self-service bag drop launched in Almaty airport
► Telegram bot 
► QR stickers to collect passengers’ feedback onboard and at 
boarding
► Free podcasts, FlyArystan travel vlog and cartoons in inflight 
entertainment system, FlyAndFun
► Contact centre digitalisation, with a voice-bot independently 
processing 13-15% of all calls
Outcome of our engagement
The Group remains committed to the highest levels of customer 
service. In 2024, we undertook a series of initiatives to improve 
services for our passengers while reinforcing our leadership in 
innovating for customers. The customer experience continues to be 
regularly reviewed, driven by the CXG (Customer Experience Group) 
chaired by the CEO. Besides the in-flight and ground experience 
improvements based on customer feedback, most notably, the 
upgraded website was launched in 2024, providing a more intuitive 
experience for customers. Followed by the launch of the new app in 
the first half of 2025.
Benchmark research: strengthening our global identity
As part of our ‘Going Global’ strategy and ambitious network-
expansion plan, we conducted a comprehensive airline benchmark 
study to ensure we continue to thrive as Kazakhstan’s flagship carrier 
while integrating world-class hospitality tailored to diverse customer 
profiles and route-specific needs. 
Summer taskforce volunteer project: enhancing the  
customer journey
For the second consecutive year, we successfully ran the Summer 
Taskforce Volunteer Project, aimed at enhancing passenger experiences 
during the peak travel season. This year, the project held even greater 
significance, coinciding with the transition period at Almaty International 
Airport – our largest hub – following the launch of its new terminal. To 
ensure a smooth and seamless travel experience, 65 non-operational 
employees worked as volunteers, providing around-the-clock assistance 
to passengers. 
Piloting the Best Airport Service Project: Raising Industry 
Standards
We contributed to the Best Airport Service Project, initiated by the 
Aviation Administration of Kazakhstan and piloted at Aktau International 
Airport in 2024. Our customer experience and service training team led 
a series of training workshops for over 70 professionals – including 
passenger handling staff, border and customs control officers, police, 
and aviation security teams – covering the essential skills to enhance 
service efficiency and passenger interactions. 
We also ran a specialist training workshop for over 30 Border Control 
Officers at Almaty International Airport, teaching interpersonal 
communication, customer focus and service excellence. 
These initiatives reflect our desire to raise service standards across our 
country’s aviation industry. We want to help shape the future of air 
travel in Kazakhstan, enhancing passenger satisfaction and 
strengthening our partnerships with industry authorities, service 
providers and customers. 
Sustainable resources and relationships Understanding what matters to our stakeholders continued Sustainable resources and relationships Understanding what matters to our stakeholders continued
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 41   40   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
Measurable experience insights:
► Air Astana achieved a net promoter score (NPS) of 41 and a 
customer-satisfaction score (CSAT) of 75, based on more than 
17,300 responses from our passengers. We are pleased to note 
that, in this score range, we have more promoters than passives 
and detractors, and these customers are loyal to us and willing to 
recommend our brand to others
► In its post-flight survey, FlyArystan covered more than 37,000 
passengers in 2024. Based on the rates obtained, NPS was 32 and 
CSAT was 83. Again, in this score range, the airline has more 
promoters than passives and detractors, and these loyal customers 
are willing to recommend our brand
► Our Mystery Shopper project evaluated service consistency with 
existing standards, helping us to objectively assess how service 
quality aligns with the stated standards, and to uncover the actual 
customer experience we provide
Memorable experience
A memorable journey leaves a lasting impression – through outstanding 
service, surprising moments of delight, and a commitment to 
exceeding expectations. As we continue to grow, we will keep 
providing an exceptional customer experience, based on listening to 
our customers, developing new and improved services and products, 
and maintaining the highest industry standards.
In 2024, Air Astana and FlyArystan received several prestigious 
awards, recognising our exceptional service:
► Air Astana is rated a 4-Star Airline by Skytrax
► Air Astana was awarded Best Airline in Central Asia and CIS at the 
Skytrax World Airline Awards, for the thirteenth year running
► Air Astana was recognised as a Five Star Major Airline by APEX at a 
ceremony in California, marking the fifth time in seven years the 
airline has received this distinction
► Air Astana secured 38th position in the World’s Top 100 Airlines list, 
underscoring its global reputation for quality and service
► Air Astana received Best Airline Staff Service in Central Asia and CIS 
for the eighth time, reflecting the dedication and professionalism 
of its team 
► FlyArystan is rated a 4-Star Low-Cost Airline by Skytrax
► FlyArystan was awarded Best Low-Cost Airline in Central Asia and CIS 
at the Skytrax World Airline Awards, for the second consecutive year
As we refine our customer-experience strategy, we continue to build on three key principles: 
Meaningful experience
Creating a meaningful customer journey means going beyond 
transactions to establish emotional connections through personalisation, 
convenience, responsiveness and service excellence. In 2024, we focused 
on ‘total experience’ as a strategic direction. This involves integrating 
customer interactions with employee engagement and process 
transformation to enhance loyalty and satisfaction among all stakeholders. 
This approach will not only improve service quality but also increase the 
efficiency of internal processes, giving us competitive advantages. We 
paid particular attention to the importance of digital transformation, 
simplification and optimisation, which will be key factors in the 
successful development of future improvements. We will implement 
advanced technologies to enhance operational efficiency and improve 
the customer experience.
We aim to provide a world-class travel experience that blends 
comfort, innovation and cultural authenticity. As part of this, we 
embarked on a holistic product-development journey in late 2024, 
setting the stage for a transformative year ahead in 2025. We will be 
making comprehensive enhancements across key areas that directly 
affect customer satisfaction and service quality. Sustainability and ESG 
principles also remain at the heart of our strategy, as we integrate 
eco-conscious practices into every aspect of our operations, from 
reducing waste to sourcing sustainable products.
Measurable experience
Offering a measurable experience allows us to gain deeper insights 
into our current and future customers, their needs, and their 
perception of the Air Astana brand. Through regular service-quality 
assessments and customer-experience surveys, we gather invaluable 
feedback that informs continuous improvement.
In 2024, we expanded our onboard in-seat survey to include six 
additional languages (nine languages in total), making inflight 
feedback more accessible for more passengers. 
Several advances in data collection and analysis, using automation 
and Artificial Intelligence, have given us a more comprehensive 
segmentation and understanding of customer preferences and 
expectations. More importantly, the insights are systematically 
communicated to all departments at all management levels, ensuring 
that both strengths and areas for improvement are identified.
Sustainable resources and relationships Understanding what matters to our stakeholders continued Sustainable resources and relationships Understanding what matters to our stakeholders continued
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202442   43   
Key projects and initiatives
Simplifying processes and improving communication with 
passengers
We have digitised the way we handle passenger complaints, by 
offering passengers information sheets with a QR code, so they can 
complete an online claim for missing or damaged baggage, or 
personal belongings left onboard, among other issues. 
Our Lost & Found staff are available to help passengers in the airports 
of Almaty, Astana, Atyrau, Aktau, Uralsk and Shymkent. Also, in 
Almaty, Astana and Shymkent, we offer home delivery of baggage.
We have set target customer-satisfaction ratings (CSAT) at 80 for both 
airlines. These improvements will influence our CSAT score for the 
post-flight experience, where 85% of passengers report satisfaction 
for baggage handling.
FlyArystan AOC 
As at 1 April 2024, FlyArystan has operated under its own AOC. This 
enables the brand, which previously operated under the Air Astana AOC, 
to align operations more effectively with its LCC model and pursue 
additional growth opportunities with its own IATA code (FS). FlyArystan 
remains a wholly owned subsidiary of the Air Astana JSC.
FlyArystan’s Low-cost Travel Vlog
In 2024, FlyArystan introduced the Low-cost Travel Vlog on YouTube, 
showing people how to travel more easily the low-cost way. The vlog  
is proving a popular way of communicating, promoting destinations in a 
friendly, inspiring style while educating viewers about the low-cost model.
New international terminal in Almaty
The new International Terminal at Almaty airport was inaugurated  
on 31 May 2024. This has tripled the terminal area, increasing annual 
capacity at the airport from 8 to 14 million passengers per year. The 
new terminal resolves the capacity bottleneck at the Group’s main 
base and provides additional capacity for further growth in the future.
Sustainable resources and relationships Understanding what matters to our stakeholders continued Sustainable resources and relationships Understanding what matters to our stakeholders continued
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202444   45   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
Air Astana GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 continued 
Our six priority  
UN SDGs
Sustainable resources and relationships Sustainable growth continued
As global challenges evolve, sustainability remains a 
fundamental part of our corporate strategy. We acknowledge 
the importance of balancing business growth with 
environmental responsibility by reducing our carbon footprint, 
as well as contributing positively to the communities we 
serve. Throughout 2024, we maintained a strong focus  
on environmental stewardship, prioritising fuel efficiency, 
technological advancements and sustainable practices. 
These efforts have not only improved our operational 
performance, but have also strengthened our commitment 
to sustainable aviation. Our commitment to reducing 
environmental impact is evident in our exploration of 
alternative energy sources and the implementation of 
fuel-efficient flight strategies.
Beyond operational initiatives, we work with employees, 
partners and stakeholders to cultivate a culture of 
sustainability and environmental responsibility. Through 
awareness programmes and educational efforts, we strive 
to inspire positive changes within and beyond our airline. 
In collaboration with business partners and regulatory 
authorities, we completed research into the feasibility  
of producing and using SAF in Kazakhstan. The study 
confirmed that SAF can be produced locally, but that 
successful integration requires collaboration among 
airlines, fuel producers, airports, government bodies and 
regulators. A unified approach will be key  
to advancing adoption of SAF, supporting sustainable 
aviation in Kazakhstan and beyond.
In December 2024, Air Astana Group held the ESG awards 
ceremony, which recognised through a variety of nominations 
the partners who help us implement ESG principles,  
as well as raising awareness of our ESG initiatives.
Air Astana became the first airline in Central Asia and the 
CIS to join IATA CO₂ Connect, and will provide operational 
data to enhance the accuracy of CO2 emissions calculations, 
contributing to the industry’s commitment to achieving 
net-zero carbon emissions by 2050.
In 2025, Air Astana will be participating in IATA’s Integrated 
Sustainability Programme (ISP) – Sustainable Procurement 
Pilot. By joining this programme, we aim to enhance our 
procurement practices, ensuring they support not only 
economic efficiency but also environmental conservation 
and social responsibility. This step is part of our broader 
strategy to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050.
Our achievements over the past year reflect our ongoing 
commitment to sustainability. We remain focused on 
innovation, seeking forward-thinking solutions and 
collaborations that will help us progress further. For us, 
building a sustainable future is more than a goal – it is  
a responsibility we embrace with determination. 
Our approach to sustainability
The Air Astana Group aims to become the leading 
environmentally sustainable and socially responsible 
airline in the CIS and Central Asia. To mitigate  
the impact of our operations on the environment 
and the communities we serve, we adopt a 
comprehensive sustainability strategy. This 
includes reducing emissions, managing waste 
efficiently, conserving vital resources such as 
energy and supporting local communities. 
ESG Strategy 
We continue to implement our comprehensive ESG 
Strategy, covering 2023-2032, which is aligned with 
international best practices and standards. It builds 
upon our existing and planned sustainability 
initiatives while aligning with the United Nations’ 
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We 
identified six key SDGs as priorities: Quality 
Education (SDG 4), Gender Equality (SDG 5), Decent 
Work and Economic Growth (SDG 8), Reduced 
Inequalities (SDG 10), Climate Action (SDG 13), and 
Partnerships for the Goals (SDG 17). 
By focusing on these specific SDGs, our ESG 
Strategy is both targeted and impactful, addressing 
the unique challenges and opportunities within 
the aviation industry. While these six SDGs are our 
primary focus, we recognise the importance of all 
17 SDGs in achieving a sustainable future. Our 
strategic approach ensures we concentrate our 
efforts where they align most closely with our 
operations and where we can be most meaningful. 
Low-Carbon Development 
Programme (LCDP)
Our LCDP for 2023–2032 establishes clear goals for 
reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and is 
integrated into our broader ESG Strategy. It aligns 
with Kazakhstan’s commitment to achieving carbon 
neutrality by 2060. A key component involves 
phasing out older Airbus aircraft and moving to 
new-generation A320 and A321neo models, which 
Airbus reports can reduce fuel consumption and CO₂ 
(NOX) emissions by up to 20%, while also cutting 
aircraft noise by 50% compared with previous-
generation A320ceo aircraft.
We have already made significant progress in 
reducing our CO₂ emissions per revenue passenger 
kilometre (RPK), decreasing from 0.122 in 2016 to 
0.078 in 2024, a 36% reduction. This compares 
favourably with international network carriers and 
low-cost airlines. 
In 2024, the Air Astana Group revised its net-zero 
commitment, moving its target from 2060 to 2050 
in alignment with the global aviation industry’s 
goals, rather than Kazakhstan’s national target. 
Following this decision, we recognised the need to 
update the LCDP accordingly, and began this work 
in 2024. It now incorporates a structured 
decarbonisation roadmap with near-term targets 
for the next five years.
These targets will be independently verified, 
ensuring alignment with the Paris Agreement’s 
climate mitigation objectives. Additionally, in 
accordance with the Association of Asia Pacific 
Airlines’ (AAPA) resolution, we have committed to 
achieving at least 5% SAF blending by 2030, 
subject to market availability.  
The ESG Strategy’s 
Action Plan includes 
short-, medium- and 
long-term initiatives 
that target: 
    Addressing 
environmental and social 
concerns in a proactive 
and transparent manner
   Providing a systematic 
approach to managing 
ESG issues
   Providing measurable 
and understandable data 
to investors
   Complying with 
international 
requirements for 
sustainable development
   Monitoring the ESG 
agenda
   Long-term financial  
wellbeing
Sustainable resources and relationships
Sustainable growth
We recognise the significant impact our operations have on the 
environment, and aim to minimise this to support a sustainable  
future for the aviation industry.
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 47   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202446   
Sustainability governance 
The Board of Directors holds ultimate 
responsibility for the Group’s sustainable 
development and entrusts the ESG Committee 
with overseeing ESG-related risks and issues. 
When ESG matters overlap with other areas, 
the ESG Committee collaborates with relevant 
Board Committees, such as the Audit 
Committee on ESG risks and the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee.
Day-to-day ESG accountability falls to the CEO, 
while the Sustainability Department oversees 
the development and execution of 
sustainability objectives. Implementing 
specific initiatives is further delegated to 
department heads.
The Group’s strategic development and 
decision-making processes are guided by key 
sustainability principles, including 
transparency, accountability, ethical conduct, 
stakeholder engagement, fairness, respect for 
human rights and a zero-tolerance policy 
towards corruption. These principles are 
integrated into our risk management, strategic 
planning, human-resource management, 
investment decisions, reporting and overall 
operations, ensuring a responsible and 
sustainable approach to business.
Sustainability risks 
The ESG Committee is responsible for all 
aspects of ESG risk management, implemented 
through the Risk Management Policy. This 
policy is based on international best practices 
and aligns with the COSO Enterprise Risk 
Management framework – Integrating with 
Strategy and Performance. It is implemented 
across the business through our Corporate Risk 
Management System (CRMS). The CRMS key 
to governance, performance management 
and internal controls, as well as to minimising 
risks to sustainability, resilience and agility. 
This is vital in helping us adapt to fluctuating 
business situations by mitigating negative 
outcomes. During 2024, we paid particular 
attention to ESG and climate-related risks 
during our standard risk identification and 
assessment process. You can find full details of 
our climate-related risks and opportunities in 
the TCFD section on pages 188-195. 
Materiality 
Having carried out our initial materiality 
assessment in 2020, in 2023, we updated our 
list of material topics, not requiring any changes 
to remain aligned with our ESG Strategy.
Following the Group’s IPO in 2024, we carried 
out an additional materiality assessment to 
ensure alignment with evolving stakeholder 
expectations and market requirements. This 
update reaffirmed the relevance of our 
existing material topics while strengthening 
our focus on transparency and long-term 
value creation.
The assessment involves a comprehensive 
analysis of external and internal resources, 
including an online survey, reviewing peer 
company reports, analysing publications, and 
considering global megatrends. We identified 
20 topics as most important to both the 
Group and its stakeholders, as shown in the 
table, alongside how these topics align with 
our ESG Strategy priorities and current status.
Ethics and compliance
The sustainable development of our business 
is based on the principles of openness, 
accountability, transparency, ethical behaviour, 
justice, respect for human rights and zero 
tolerance for corruption. We operate our 
business with integrity, promoting a culture 
of ethical behaviour and compliance through 
our HEART (Hospitable, Efficient, Active, 
Reliable, Trustworthy) and CHARM (Creative, 
Happy, Agile, Reliable, Modern) values in Air 
Astana and FlyArystan, respectively. This 
approach has helped us foster longstanding 
and trusted relationships with our clients and 
business partners. 
Recognising the new status of Air Astana JSC 
as a listed company (KASE, LSE and AIX) and 
the importance of proactive risk management, 
the Board of Directors approved a strategic 
reorganisation of the Compliance and 
Sustainability Department in June 2024.  
This resulted in the establishment of an 
independent Compliance Service within Air 
Astana Group. This move signifies the Board 
of Directors’ continued dedication to fostering 
a strong compliance culture and mitigating 
potential risks associated with ethical conduct 
and regulatory adherence. 
Our ethics and compliance framework 
includes these key policies:
 ► Code of Conduct
 ► Speak-Up Policy
 ► Anti-Corruption Policy
 ► Policy for Prevention and Resolution 
of Conflicts of Interest 
 ► Corporate Fraud Prevention Policy
The Compliance Service provides the Board 
of Directors and Audit Committee with 
quarterly reports on all activities related to 
these policies.
The Group online Code of Conduct training is 
an integral part of mandatory induction course 
for all new employees. 488 employees 
successfully completed Code of Conduct 
training online in 2024, which included 
sections on anti-corruption practices. 
Of these participants, 475 were based in 
Kazakhstan, while 13 were stationed at 
international locations. Anti-corruption 
training sessions (both in person and online) 
were conducted by the Compliance Service 
for 80 FlyArystan employees.
In October 2024, the Compliance Service 
conducted specialised training for the 
Recruitment team of the Human Resources 
and Administration Department, on preventing 
conflicts of interest at the recruitment stage. 
17 recruiters participated, gaining both 
theoretical knowledge and practical insights 
into identifying and mitigating potential 
conflicts of interest. To reinforce the key 
principles covered, the Compliance Service 
formalised them into the guidelines, providing 
the team with a practical tool for daily use.
Sanctions compliance
In light of UK, EU and US sanctions related to 
Russia, the Group implemented a multi-
faceted approach to compliance. This involved 
continuous monitoring of sanctions updates 
and manual screening of counterparties and 
their banks for potential exposures. In 2024, 
we issued a revised edition of the Sanctions 
Policy, to ensure ongoing compliance with the 
latest international sanctions regulations. This 
provided specific instructions for Group 
departments, and detailed guidance for 
employees, on identifying sanctioned entities 
and goods. The Compliance Service role 
extended beyond sanctions compliance to 
include examining, evaluating and mitigating 
a wider range of compliance risks by 
conducting thorough due diligence on 
third-party relationships. We complement this 
broader compliance effort with the revised 
Know Your Customer (KYC) form, which now 
includes more comprehensive due diligence 
on shareholder structure, company officials, 
conflict of interest assessments, sanctions 
compliance, anti-corruption measures, and 
adherence to the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015.
A total of 5,029 Air Astana Group employees 
have been made familiar with the restated 
Sanctions Policy. This equips them with 
necessary skills to more effectively identify 
red flags and potential violations, enabling 
proactive mitigation of sanctions-related risks.
AUDIT  
COMMITTEE
Reviews ESG-related financial information and 
disclosures, ensures ESG risks are effectively 
integrated into the risk management system, 
and oversees the whistleblower mechanism 
for reporting any violations or concerns related 
to ESG practices.
ESG  
COMMITTEE
Is responsible for overseeing all ESG-related 
matters, providing recommendations to the 
Board on the development and approval of 
ESG Strategy, as well as assessing and 
evaluating its implementation.
SENIOR 
MANAGEMENT TEAM 
Implements the sustainability 
principles, ensures stakeholder 
engagement plans are in place, 
and oversees the advancement 
of sustainability initiatives.
SUSTAINABILIT Y 
DEPARTMENT 
Oversees the development and 
execution of sustainability 
objectives, while implementing  
the initiatives is assigned to 
department heads.
DIVISIONAL HEADS 
OF BUSINESS AREA S  
Develop and implement 
initiatives.
NOMINATION AND 
REMUNER ATION COMMITTEE
Ensures the remuneration policy and 
practices are structured to align with the 
ESG Strategy and lead to long-term 
sustainable success.
Sustainable resources and relationships Sustainable growth continued Sustainable resources and relationships Sustainable growth continued
BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF AIR A STANA
The Board is taking ultimate responsibility and providing 
oversight of management actions. The Board receives 
quarterly updates on ESG matters.
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 49   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202448   
Sustainable resources and relationships Sustainable growth continued Sustainable resources and relationships Sustainable growth continued
Reinforcing a compliance 
culture 
Whistleblowing channels
Recognising the importance of proactive 
prevention and early detection, we maintain 
a comprehensive whistleblowing facility 
(Hotline) open to employees, customers, 
business partners and other stakeholders. 
This serves as a crucial mechanism for 
reporting potential instances of fraud, 
corruption, discrimination, unethical 
behaviour and other breaches related to our 
operations. To guarantee confidentiality and 
anonymity, the independent external 
operator processes all reports received from 
multiple reporting channels. The Hotline 
accommodates reports in Kazakh, English 
and Russian languages. Actionable reports 
are then directed to the Compliance Service 
for further investigation, facilitating the 
timely identification and remediation of any 
regulatory or Code of Conduct infringements. 
The Group whistleblowing channels 
functioned effectively in 2024, supporting the 
reporting of concerns, all of which were duly 
processed by Compliance Service, with major 
cases communicated to the Board of Directors. 
None of these concerns were deemed 
critical, demonstrating the maturity of our 
governance framework and proactive issue 
resolution. This reflects our commitment to 
maintaining a culture of transparency and 
ethical conduct.
As part of its ongoing commitment to ethical 
conduct and transparency, the Compliance 
Service launched a comprehensive campaign 
in Q3 2024 to increase employees’ awareness 
of available whistleblowing channels. The 
initiative involved deploying monthly 
screensavers for one week on all computers, 
prominently displaying the Hotline contact 
information, and emphasised the 24/7 
availability of anonymous reporting, as well 
as posters around Company premises.
Whistleblowing Handbook
In Q4 2024, we introduced the Whistleblowing 
Handbook to support the Speak-Up Policy 
and further promote ethical conduct. This 
document establishes clear and consistent 
processes for handling all whistleblowing 
reports, ensuring transparent investigation 
and appropriate action. 
It equips the Compliance Service with 
practical procedures for receiving, analysing, 
categorising and reporting on whistleblowing 
activity and its overall system performance.
The Handbook also outlines measures to 
ensure the thorough review and analysis of 
all reports, considering their significance, 
potential risks and available resources. 
Crucially, it provides safeguards to protect 
whistleblowers from retaliation, fostering a 
safe environment for raising concerns.
Annual assessment of corruption risks
In Q4 2024, the Compliance Service 
conducted an annual corruption risk 
assessment, as mandated by Kazakhstani 
anti-corruption legislation. This scrutinised 
operational activities in all departments with 
inherent corruption risks, with a specific focus 
on vulnerable business processes such as 
procurement, finance, recruitment and 
corporate governance. This assessment, 
based on the methodology outlined in the 
Risk Management section of this report, 
covered 77 top and middle managers. 
The results categorised the majority of 
corruption risks within Group operations as 
‘very low’ to ‘low’. Furthermore, the 
assessment process included briefings on 
relevant anti-corruption legislation and 
policies, ensuring understanding and 
consistent implementation of the anti-
corruption framework at all levels. 
In our commitment to transparency and 
ethical conduct, in 2024, there were two 
reported and confirmed incidents of petty 
corruption related to misappropriating fees 
from extra services charged at the airport 
and upgrade of passengers to business class 
for financial reward. In line with our 
zero-tolerance policy towards corruption and 
our dedication to uphold the highest 
standards of integrity, the employees 
involved were either dismissed or subject to 
disciplinary action. 
It is noteworthy that during the reporting 
period there were no instances where 
contracts with business partners were 
terminated or not renewed due to violations 
related to corruption.
Annual Declaration of Conflict of Interest
As part of our commitment to effective risk 
management and ethical governance, we 
require all employees to declare potential 
conflicts of interest at the recruitment stage, 
when changing roles, or when personal 
circumstances change. This process is 
automated for ease of use and efficiency. 
In October 2024, the Compliance Service 
launched the Annual Declaration of Conflict 
of Interest (CoI) for Air Astana employees and 
members of the Board of Directors, as 
mandated by the revised in Q3 2024 Policy 
for Prevention and Resolution of Conflicts of 
Interest. By year end, 5,396 of employees 
had completed their declarations, indicating  
a strong culture of compliance and proactive 
risk identification. The Compliance Service 
will finalise its analysis of the CoI declarations 
in Q1 2025 and present its findings to the 
Board of Directors.
Customer privacy 
The Group is committed to safeguarding 
customer privacy, recognising the critical role 
of data protection in the aviation industry. 
We collect personal data for specific, 
legitimate purposes, including ticket booking, 
baggage handling, the provision of benefits 
for Nomad Club members, and regulatory 
compliance. Customers are informed about 
data-processing activities, and we apply 
consent mechanisms in accordance with the 
Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan On 
Personal Data and Its Protection and relevant 
international privacy legislation. We collect 
only the necessary data, ensuring personal 
information is relevant and not excessive. To 
protect passenger data from unauthorised 
access and breaches, we employ security 
measures, including encryption, access 
controls and regular information security 
audits. Our focus on data security and 
compliance led to continued enhancements 
of our privacy framework in 2024, and we 
observed no evidence of customer privacy 
being compromised.
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202450   51   
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Priority area and material issues
Related  
SDGs Commitments 1 Status update
Human-resource management
► Employment
►  Training and development  
(Read on page 67-70)
4, 5, 8, 10 Medium-term initiatives
► Conduct ESG training for employees 
► Conduct ESG training for the Company’s Board of Directors and  
top management 
► Ensure the availability of a certified GRI specialist
► Ensure the availability of a certified professional responsible for 
disclosing information on climate risk management
Long-term initiatives
► Support the annual increase in the number of employees with 
disabilities recruited
► Reduce staff turnover to 10% from 12%
► Implemented
► Implemented 
► In progress
► In progress 
► In progress 
► In progress
Product safety and quality
►  Innovation and digitalisation  
(Read on pages 82-92)
► Service quality (Read on pages 82-92)
►  On-time flight performance  
(Read on page 82-92)
►  Fleet technological improvements  
(Read on pages 82-92)
8 Long-term initiatives
► 83%-85% On-time performance (OTP) ► In progress
International ESG maturity assessment 17 Medium-term initiatives
► Receive an ESG rating
► Disclose information according to the Climate Disclosure Project  
(CDP) climate questionnaire
► In progress
► In progress
Maturity of ESG reporting practices 17 Short-term initiatives
► Develop the sustainability part of the Integrated Report in  
accordance with the updated GRI standard (2021)
► Update the materiality assessment
► Integrate priority SDGs into reporting practices
► Verify the sustainability section of the Integrated Report by an 
independent party (annually)
Medium-term initiatives
► Devise standard preparation procedure for the developing the 
sustainability section of the Integrated Report as well as the ESG 
data-collection system
► Ensure compliance of information disclosure with the 
recommendations of stock exchanges (KASE/AIX/LSE)
► Ensure corporate governance disclosures comply with MSCI and 
Sustainalytics recommendations
Long-term initiatives
► Disclose information in accordance with the SASB industry  
standard for aviation
► Implemented  
► Implemented
► Implemented
► Implemented 
► In progress 
 
► Implemented  
► In progress 
► In progress
Climate change risks
► Emissions 
► Environmental compliance 
17 Short-term initiatives
► Conduct an initial disclosure of information on climate-risk management  
in accordance with the TCFD
Medium-term initiatives
► Information disclosure on climate-risk management improved in 
accordance with the TCFD recommendations
► Integrate climate risks into the corporate risk register, business  
strategy and financial plan of the Group
► Implemented 
► Implemented  
► Implemented 
Supply chain
►  Procurement practices (Read on page 71)
10, 13, 17 Long-term initiatives
► Develop and approve the Supplier Code in relation to ESG ► In progress
 1  The timeframe used equates to: Short - 1 year (2024), Medium - from 2025 to 2027, Long - from 2028 to 2032
Sustainable resources and relationships Sustainable growth continued Sustainable resources and relationships Sustainable growth continued
Priorities and main initiatives of the ESG Strategy
Priority area and material issues
Related 
SDGs Commitments 1 Status update
Environmental impact management
► Energy (Read on page 56)
► Emissions (Read on page 56)
► Waste management (Read on page 57)
► Environmental compliance (Read on page 58)
13, 17 Medium-term initiatives
► Develop an Environmental Policy
► Develop a cabin-waste management programme
► Implemented
► In progress
Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions
► Emissions 
13, 17 Short-term initiatives
► Reduce CO2 emissions in accordance with the LCDP
► Conduct research independently or in co-operation with local or 
international organisations on the possibility of producing and using  
SAF in Kazakhstan
Medium-term initiatives
► Feasibility analysis on launching a programme under a carbon  
offsetting mechanism
Long-term initiatives
► Calculate Scope 3 indirect GHG emissions
► Achieve the GHG emission-reduction target by 2032, in line with the LCDP
► In progress
► Implemented 
 
 
► In progress 
► In progress
► In progress
Corporate social responsibility 10 Long-term initiatives
► Increase the annual volume of financial resources allocated for charity
► Ensure an increase in the number of cities covered under the programme 
for the socio-economic development of regions and the local community
► In progress
► In progress
Human rights
► Employment (Read on pages 63-66)
5, 8, 10 Short-term initiatives
► Develop a Human Rights Policy in line with the International Bill of 
Human Rights
► Make a statement about Modern Slavery
► Develop a policy to counter gender inequality and harassment within  
the Group, as well as an employee-grievance mechanism to address 
labour issues and gender-based violence
► Develop a Sexual Harassment Policy
► Develop a policy to support freedom of association and workforce 
diversification
Medium-term initiatives
► Develop a Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Policy
► Implemented 
► Implemented 
► Implemented 
 
 
► Implemented
► Implemented 
► In progress
Health and Safety practices
►  Occupational health and safety  
(Read on pages 59-60)
►  Aviation safety management systems  
(Read on pages 61-62)
8 Medium-term initiatives
► Develop a policy for the safe operation of ground transport
Long-term initiatives
► Ensure a reduction in the total accident rate (TAR) per 1,000 employees 
annually – 3.8 by 2025, 3.7 by 2026, 3.6 by 2027
► Increase the number of behavioural observations (BO) – 250 by 2025, 
300 by 2026, 250 by 2027
► Implemented
► In progress 
► In progress
1 The timeframe used equates to: Short - 1 year (2024), Medium - from 2025 to 2027, Long - from 2028 to 2032
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202452   53   
Priority area and material issues
Related  
SDGs Commitments 1 Status update
Ensuring data privacy
►  Customer privacy  
(Read on page 51)
8 Medium-term initiatives
► Obtain certification in for the management and protection of personal data –  
ISO 27701
Long-term initiatives
► Initiate and ensure the implementation of initiatives aimed at improving the 
privacy of personal data
► In progress 
► In progress
Corporate governance
►  Corporate governance  
(Read on page 98)
►  Ethics and compliance  
(Read on pages 49-51)
8 Short-term initiatives
►     Develop a policy or statement about political neutrality
Medium-term initiatives
► Align the composition of Board of Directors with the best international ESG 
practice (for example: MSCI) 
► Implemented
► In progress
Strategic management
► Strategy (Read on page 34)
►  Economic performance  
(Read on page 182)
►  Passenger turnover  
(Read on page 14)
8 Short-term initiatives•
► Initiate revisions of the ESG Strategy implementation plan regularly, to take 
account of changes in the external and internal environment
Medium-term initiatives
► Integrate the essential SDGs into strategic planning
Long-term initiatives
► Approve the ESG Strategy for the period 2033–2060
► Implemented
► In progress
► In progress
Stakeholder engagement
►  Stakeholder engagement  
(Read on pages 38-44)
17 Short-term initiatives
► Develop an ESG section on the website
► Consider joining local associations/international ESG communities
► Consider the possibilities of developing co-operation with partners
► Develop a stakeholder engagement plan
Medium-term initiatives
► Develop an initiative for interaction between top management  
and employees 
Long-term initiatives:
► Ensure an increase in the number of joint sustainable development 
projects with partners and stakeholders 
► In progress
► In progress
► In progress
► In progress
► In progress 
► In progress
1 The timeframe used equates to: Short - 1 year (2024), Medium - from 2025 to 2027, Long - from 2028 to 2032
Approach 
We aim to reduce our environmental impact and develop 
initiatives to avoid or reduce man-made climate change. We 
have invested significantly in developing our environmental 
protection management system following best practice local 
and international standards. Through this, we are better able to 
make efficient use of resources, to control and monitor the 
impact of our activities. 
Our Low-Carbon Development Programme (LCDP) for 2023–2032, 
which is part of our ESG Strategy, outlines clear objectives for 
reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. While originally 
supporting Kazakhstan’s national goal of carbon neutrality by 
2060, we revised our commitment in 2024, accelerating our 
net-zero target to 2050 in line with the ICAO Assembly goal.  
This shift prompted a comprehensive update of the LCDP, which 
began in 2024 to reflect our enhanced ambition. 
We encourage the efficient use of resources in our offices and in 
flight. Our fuel-efficiency procedures optimise jet fuel use and 
minimise GHG emissions. We regularly communicate about our 
operations and emissions to underline the importance of 
environmental responsibility to the business. We also involve 
employees in environmental initiatives to raise their levels of 
awareness. We incorporate various aspects of our ESG agenda 
into employee ESG training. 
Emissions 
Air travel contributes to the accelerating climate change by 
releasing GHGs. We aim to reduce carbon emissions classified as 
either direct (Scope 1) or indirect (Scopes 2 and 3) under the 
Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Scope 1 are GHG emissions from sources 
we own or operate. Indirect emissions are emissions that result 
from our activities but are emitted from sources owned or 
controlled by another company. 
2024 highlights 
   Conducted analysis of 
physical climate risks 
and transitional 
climate risks
   Compliance with the 
requirements of the 
Ecological Code of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan
   Internal auditors for 
occupational health  
and safety completed 
training on the ISO 
14001 Environment 
management systems 
standard
   Air Astana has been 
enhancing sustainability 
across inflight products 
by reducing plastic 
waste, using eco-
friendly packaging, and 
changing to recyclable 
and biodegradable 
materials
   FlyArystan launched 
onboard sales of 
shopping bags made 
from repurposed expired 
life vests as part of a 
charity programme
 
Material issues
 ► Energy
 ► Emissions
 ► Effluents and waste
 ► Environmental compliance
Guidelines we follow
Republic of Kazakhstan 
legislation: 
Ecological Code 2021; Directive 
2003/87/EC, Law No. 588 ‘On 
electric power’ (9 July 2004); 
Order of the Minister of Energy 
No. 230 ‘On approval of the rules 
for the installation of electrical 
installations’ (20 March 2015); 
Order of the Minister for 
Investments and Development 
No. 406 ‘On establishing 
requirements for the energy 
efficiency of buildings, structures 
and their elements’  
(31 March 2015).
Other
Health, Safety and 
Environmental Protection 
Policy; TCFD; ICAO Annex 16, 
Volume IV CORSIA. 
Sustainable resources and relationships
Environment
Sustainable resources and relationships Sustainable growth continued
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202454   55   
In addition to continuously monitoring our 
GHG emissions, our efforts to reduce them 
include safely increasing fuel efficiency, 
making technological improvements, and 
using fuel-efficient aircraft that emit less CO2 . 
We also use operational methods such as 
route planning, reducing aircraft weight and 
training pilots in fuel-efficient flying. 
Scope 1 direct emissions constitute the 
majority of the Group’s total GHG emissions, 
mainly from the combustion of jet fuel. We 
have developed CO2 Emissions Monitoring and 
Reporting Instructions that prescribe how we 
account for this.
We comply with the following CO2 monitoring 
schemes, with emissions verified by an 
independent environmental accredited 
verification, certification and auditing body: 
 ► EU ETS – European Union Emission Trading 
Scheme (includes all flights within the 
European Union) 
 ► CORSIA – Carbon Offsetting and Reduction 
Scheme for International Aviation 
(includes international flights)
Emission factors and global warming potential 
(GWP) rates are applied from methodologies 
of the EU ETS and CORSIA frameworks. The 
Group applies the operational control approach 
to consolidate GHG emissions.
Currently, Air Astana Group accounts for 
Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions, and will 
report Scope 3 emissions from 2025. Our 
LCDP for 2023–2032 sets targets for minimising 
CO2 emissions from our operations, and we 
have updated it this year, with a goal of 
attaining net zero by 2050. 
As fuel combustion is such a major contributor 
to our direct emissions, we worked with the 
European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (EBRD) and KazMunaiGas to 
research the potential for producing and using 
SAF in Kazakhstan. 
We are also closely monitoring industry 
standards, trends and stakeholder demands 
since the future use of SAF may be mandated 
for arrivals and departures by certain 
countries. Aligning with recent Association of 
Asia Pacific Airlines resolution, we will aim for 
5% SAF blending by 2030 and incorporate this 
into the updated LCDP. 
Waste management 
The Group’s waste-management programme 
is based on reduction, recycling and disposal, 
using third parties as necessary. By involving 
employees and customers in initiatives to 
reduce and recycle waste, we have helped 
raise awareness and increase such activity, 
both on our aircraft and in our offices. 
As part of its waste reduction efforts during 
flights, Air Astana has integrated its in-flight 
entertainment program (IFE), KCTV, into its 
onboard magazine, Tengri. Previously, the 
KCTV program was published as a separate 
printed guide. However, in an effort to 
optimise costs and reduce the volume of 
printed materials, it has now become an 
integral part of the main magazine. Copies of 
this are available in seat pockets without any 
plastic packaging. Since 2020, we have used 
biodegradable materials for inflight products, 
including switching from plastic to wood for 
drink stirrers, replacing onboard cups with 
recyclable cups, using paper bands instead of 
plastic bags for blankets, and packing most 
of our amenity kits in bamboo and paper. We 
are also encouraging onboard teams and 
passengers to think about waste. We 
encourage passengers to use our MyPress 
service, which offers a wide range of 
newspapers and magazines in various 
languages and helps reduce the number  
of paper copies onboard. 
We have launched several recycling 
initiatives, including safe disposal of PET 
bottles and used batteries, and using 
wastewater to wash wheels and brakes.  
By embracing digitalisation, we have also 
reduced the volume of paper we use. We 
have developed social projects linked to 
waste management to raise awareness 
among all stakeholders.
We also began Upcycling for the Future, a 
project to creates sculptures from 
decommissioned parts of Boeing 767 and 
Airbus A320 aircraft. 
We continue to recycle waste generated from 
aircraft after C-checks, using metal and 
plastic parts in making Kazoku robots in 
Almaty, and we work with people who 
repurpose these materials, giving them a 
second life. 
Inflight product sustainability updates:
 ► We use eco-friendly packaging wherever 
possible
 ► Cleaning-product bottles have changed to 
recyclable materials
 ► Amenity kits now feature small plastic 
security seals instead of individual 
packaging. For example, the economy 
class travel kit includes a pillow that 
passengers can take with them and use 
on their return flight
 ► Headphones are packed in biodegradable 
packaging
 ► Blankets are secured with paper bands 
instead of plastic bags
FlyArystan has also introduced an initiative to 
transform expired life jackets into shopping 
bags, with proceeds from sales donated to 
charity. Production began in 2023, and onboard 
sales started in 2024. The environmental page 
in the FlyArystan inflight menu for 2024 and 
2025 aims to raise awareness among 
passengers and stakeholders about  
conscious consumption and sustainable 
living. Launched in May 2023, we continued 
FlyAndFun, FlyArystan’s digital platform, in 
2024, reducing paper consumption through 
electronic magazines, newspapers and 
books. E-receipts save approximately 7 km of 
thermal paper annually. The IFE system 
without built-in screens lowers aircraft 
weight, reducing fuel consumption and CO₂ 
emissions, as traditional seatback screens 
can add 700 to 1,700 kg, while the server 
weighs only 3 kg.
In 2024, FlyArystan continued the sale and 
use of ready-to-drink tea in cups, reducing 
disposable cup use 40% from 2023 while 
enhancing passenger comfort and safety.
FlyArystan continued its forest restoration 
project, Semey Ormany State Forest Nature 
Reserve in Abay region,, aimed at preserving 
ecosystems and increasing forested areas.  
Waste disposal in Group’s sites (Almaty, Astana, Aktau) 
Type of waste / unit Disposal method 2024 2023 2022
  Hazardous waste
  Hazardous waste 1, tonnes Total 17.87 11.8 8.2
Third-party disposal 5.34 - -
Waste dumping 12.53 - -
  Non-hazardous waste,  
  tonnes
Total 2,924.69 2,984.2 2,823.32
Recycling
Other batteries 
and accumulators 
0.26  -  -
Recycling
Used tyres
1.60 - -
Recycling
paper, PET
33.16 39.1 30.7
Recycling
Scrap metal 
1.82 0.4 3.2
Waste dumping 
Solid household
2,887.85 2,944.8 2,789.4
  Total, tonnes 2   2,941.56 2,996.02 2,831.5
1  The amount of hazardous waste is due to the increased number of C-checks conducted in Astana, as well as the higher 
disposal rate per kilogram. All hazardous and non-h azardous waste disposal operations, are fully manag ed by third-party 
services provided offsite, in accordance with appli cable environmental regulations.
2  Waste data has been compiled in accordance with the Group’s internal waste management procedures, ensuring consistency 
with applicable regulatory requirements and operati onal practices.
GHG emissions 
An increase in both domestic and international flights in 2024 inevitably also led to an overall 
increase in our CO2 emissions – by 12%. The slight increase in RPK and ASK CO2 emissions 
intensity is associated with the updated coefficient of CO2 emissions calculation. However, we 
still contribute to aircraft modernisation, route optimisation and various pilot techniques to 
reduce fuel consumption and CO2 emissions.
2024 2023 2022
CO2 emissions intensity (tonnes CO 2 per RPK) 1 0.078 0.076 0.077
CO2 emissions intensity (tonnes CO 2 per ASK) 1 0.065 0.063 0.064
Scope 1 GHG emissions (tonnes of CO 2) 1,252,773 1,115,142 1,015,507
Company-specific metric (seat kilometres) 19,322,854 17,689,651 15,921,347
Company-specific metric (revenue kilometres) 16,128,485 14,646, 227 13,159,168
1 The intensity ratio includes only Scope 1 emission s.
The total volume of direct emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants into 
the atmosphere from other sources owned by the Group
Pollutants 2024 2023 2022
Sulphate oxides, tonnes 4.39 3.96 3.17
Nitrogen oxides, tonnes 10.58 9.68 8.39 
Hydrocarbons, tonnes 2.63 2.44 2.16 
Carbon oxides, tonnes 13.03 11.63 9.22 
Other substances, tonnes 0.11 1.61 11.06 
Particulate matter (PM)
2024 2023 2022
Particulate matter 1.03 1.51 0.21
Emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollutants are categorized and reported in line with 
the Ecological Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, using nationally approved calculation and 
reporting methodologies. 
The main source of the Group’s indirect greenhouse gas emissions is the consumption of 
purchased electricity and heating, which does not make a significant contribution to the 
Group’s overall emissions. The total volume of Scope 2 GHG emissions is 5,120 tonnes. 
Energy 
The total energy consumption of the Group in 2024 was 17,181 thousand GJ. This includes 
aviation fuel, diesel, heating, electricity and other. Calculations of energy consumption are 
based on methodologies aligned with the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) 
Guidelines. Conversion factors for each energy source are derived from IPCC and internationally 
recognized standards to ensure accuracy and consistency.
While we do not currently use renewable energy, we are looking at alternative energy 
resources, in particular, we will study in detail the possibility of converting the heating of the 
aviation technical centre in Astana to gas rather than diesel fuel.
Energy consumption
2024 2023 2022
Electricity (GJ) 15,473 14,958 11,282
Heating (GJ) 6,803 28,615 16,130
 
Sustainable resources and relationships Environment continued Sustainable resources and relationships Environment continued
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202456   57   
Environmental compliance 
Air Astana Group complies with environmental laws and regulations. 
The requirements of the Ecological Code came into force in 2021 and 
we have incorporated them into our environmental protection 
management system. No significant fines or penalties were issued for 
non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations during 2024, 
nor during the previous four years.
In December 2024, the Department of Ecology and Environment of 
Almaty city confirmed that FlyArystan is classified as a Category IV 
environmental hazard, indicating minimal negative impact on the 
environment.
Total expenses for environmental protection
Expenses (USD) 2024 2023 2022
Environmental protection 142,734 129,178 43,529
Negative impact on the environment 2,166 379,925 299,298 
Hazardous waste disposal 11,981 1,951 918
Transfer of household waste 90,011 86,831 82,092 
The increase in payment for hazardous waste occurred due to the 
increase in the number of C-checks, which, in turn, led to an increase 
in the volume of hazardous waste being sent for disposal. Also, the 
service provider for the collecting and disposing of hazardous waste 
increased their fee. Another reason for the increase in cost was the 
conclusion of a contract for the disposal of hazardous waste in Aktau, 
and waste removal was carried out from Aktau.
Approach
Safety is a key objective for the Group, and we 
adhere to high standards and aim for continuous 
improvement in all our daily business activities. 
Our Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) system 
is based on best practice and international 
standards, and complies with all aspects of the 
Labour Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan and 
other legislative documents. 
Occupational health and safety 
Our OHS is re-certified to ISO 45001:2018. In July 
2024, Air Astana passed the audit conducted by 
the Intertek International Kazakhstan certification 
body, certificate number: 0182178, in Almaty, 
Astana, Aktau, Atyrau, Pavlodar, Shymkent 
company representative. This included extending 
the certification area to cover FlyArystan. The audit 
team concluded that the top management process 
is generally working well. Compliance with ISO 
45001:2018 is generally confirmed. 
We carried out a range of other health and safety 
activities during the year: 115 employees 
undertook certified online training in health and 
safety; 629 employees were trained in industrial 
safety, included 92 managers. We organised 
annual professional health check-ups for 
employees working in harmful or hazardous 
conditions; and we updated health and safety 
instructions by occupation and type of activity.
We continue to work on improving the quality of 
special clothing. In 2024, we started providing 
updated summer suits to all operational 
employees, improving the fabric wear resistance 
and ergonomic design.
We conducted alcohol and drug checks aimed at 
preventing use of unauthorised substances in the 
workplace by operational departments, including 
flight and cabin crew members, engineering and 
maintenance, and ground operations staff – in all 
Kazakhstan regions and at international stations. In 
2024, the total number of tests we conducted was 
5,513: 1,045 drug tests and 4,468 alcohol tests. 
Fire safety 
All newly hired employees complete an introductory 
fire-safety briefing and, subsequently, receive an 
initial fire-safety briefing at their workplace. We 
repeat these briefings annually, supplemented by 
targeted ad hoc sessions as necessary.
We conducted a minimum fire-safety course and 
issued certificates valid for three years to 141 
employees, and conducted 17 fire evacuation drills 
at our facilities. All our facilities are equipped with 
automatic fire alarms and have primary fire-
extinguishing equipment such as powder and 
carbon dioxide portable fire extinguishers, fire 
shields and fire hydrants. In addition, automatic 
fire-extinguishing systems, including gas, foam, 
deluge, sprinkler and powder, are installed in 
various premises such as hangars, server rooms, 
archives and warehouses. We exercise control over 
contractors who perform maintenance of primary 
fire-extinguishing equipment and automatic 
fire-safety systems, and carry out maintenance in 
accordance with approved schedules. We passed 
external fire-safety audits in Astana in May, and in 
Almaty in October.
In 2022, we joined the global Vision Zero initiative, 
emphasising our commitment to employee safety, 
health, and well-being. In 2023–2024, we 
conducted a survey among managers on 
compliance with the concept and successfully 
apply its practices in our work, ensuring the 
highest occupational safety standards and safe 
working conditions.
2024 highlights 
   Re-certification audit  
for ISO 45001:2018 
   Since AOC was granted 
to FlyArystan LCC in 
2024, we have applied 
standardised operational 
and management 
systems within the 
Group
   Successfully passed the 
annual on-site EASA 
Part 145 audit in 
Almaty, Aktau and 
Atyrau bases
   Renewed our EASA  
Part 147 (Maintenance 
Training Organisation)
Material issues 
Occupational health and safety, 
Safety Management System 
(SMS). 
Guidelines we follow
Republic of Kazakhstan 
legislation: 
Labour Code; Law ‘On use of 
airspace’, as well as relevant 
Ministers’ Orders.
Other
Health, Safety and 
Environmental Protection Policy; 
Certificate of Registration for 
Occupational Health and Safety 
Management System; Safety 
Management Manual; 
Compliance Monitoring Manual; 
Manual on Prevention of Use of 
Unauthorised Substances; ISO 
45001:2018; ICAO Annex 19 and 
Doc 9859; EASA Part TCO, Part 
145/147; Part CAMO; IOSA 
ISARPS; Aviation Safety 
Compliance Policy.
 
Seven golden rules of Vision Zero 
1 Take leadership – demonstrate commitment 
2 Identify hazards – control risks 
3 Define targets – develop programmes 
4  Ensure a safe and healthy system –  
be well organised 
5 
 Ensure safety and health in machines, 
equipment and workplaces 
6 
 Improve qualifications – develop competence 
7  Invest in people – motivate by participation
Sustainable resources and relationships Environment continued Sustainable resources and relationships
Health and safety
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202458   59   
OHS leadership is demonstrated through 
discussions on health and safety issues at 
monthly management meetings chaired by 
the CEO. 
Risk control comes through regular updates 
of the hazard register and risk assessment, 
taking into account changes in procedures, 
work processes, and introduction of new or 
modernisation of old equipment. An 
important part of identifying risk is to analyse 
incidents and accidents at workplaces.
A Working Group on OHS continues its work 
in the Inflight Services Department. The 
group consists of flight attendants who have 
extensive work experience and a desire to 
maintain an organised OHS management 
system. The members observe the work of 
flight attendants during the flight, send their 
suggestions for improving internal processes, 
and share their experience with newcomers. 
Our annual safety awards, including OHS 
Recognition, once again honored employees 
who made outstanding contributions to 
enhancing safety culture, knowledge, and 
skills. This award celebrates those who have 
demonstrated dedication and enthusiasm for 
health and safety throughout the year. In 
2024, two nominees were recognised for their 
exceptional commitment at the annual awards 
ceremony.
We held safety forums for employee in 
Ground Services and Inflight Services, 
including speakers from other departments. 
This familiarises employees with the activities 
of related departments and broadens their 
horizons, which has a positive effect on 
increasing their competence and efficiency. In 
addition, we held meetings for drivers of the 
motor transport service to maintain 
awareness of safety in different weather 
conditions, to increase employee motivation 
through participation, and to familiarise them 
with the innovations introduced during 2024 in 
procedures and equipment.
Mental health 
Mental health support through the services 
provided by psychologists, launched in 2021,  
is highly appreciated by our employees. 
Sessions are conducted by practising analytical 
psychologists and psychotherapists. In 2024, 
more than 1,500 sessions were held, an 
increase of 66% over 2023. Providing access  
to psychological support helps employees 
deal effectively with stress, conflict and other 
emotional issues and is directly related to their 
productivity, motivation and overall wellbeing. 
In addition, we recognise work can be 
demanding, so our approach helps create a 
healthy and supportive work environment 
where employees can achieve their 
professional goals. This is very much part  
of our role as a caring employer, helping 
strengthen the bond with our employees. 
We promote the services in a number  
of ways, and employees are guaranteed 
confidentiality. Our managers recommend 
these services and emphasise their importance 
for wellbeing and professional development. 
We are planning anonymous surveys to 
assess the effectiveness of the services,  
to see whether we can improve them.
Safety Management System 
(SMS)
Maintaining the highest safety standards is 
vital, and our approach goes beyond simple 
compliance with requirements: we cultivate  
a culture of safety, and look to continuously 
improve and embrace international best 
practice. Our SMS aims to identify the 
potential hazards connected with aviation 
operations and mitigate these risks to 
acceptable levels. It covers all levels of the 
organisation, with specific safety programmes 
for flight operations, cabin crew, engineering 
and maintenance, and ground services. Since 
it started in May 2002, we have carried 83 
million passengers safely, with no accident 
during passenger or cargo operations. 
Compliance monitoring 
programme 
We have had the EASA Part 145 approval to 
maintain our fleet in accordance with EASA 
requirements since 2003. The on-site renewal 
audit took place in Almaty, Aktau and Atyrau 
in September 2024. As a holder of an EASA 
Part 145 certificate, we carry out full 
maintenance services on our own aircraft and, 
additionally, provide line maintenance services 
to 26 other air carriers. We have also been 
certified as an EASA Part 147 Maintenance 
Training Organisation since 2015; the renewal 
audit was carried out in October 2024. 
We were the first operator audited under  
the EASA Third Country Operations (TCO) 
certification, in December 2015. The 
authorisation complies with EASA Part-TCO, 
as well as with UK TCO authorisation, 
obtained in 2022. 
Our operations comply with appropriate 
standards of safety and security regulated by 
the Aviation Administration of Kazakhstan 
(AAK) as state of operator and, under 
International Civil Aviation Organisation 
(ICAO) Article 83bis agreement, the Irish 
Aviation Authority (IAA) as state of registry 
responsible for overseeing airworthiness. 
During 2024, Air Astana underwent a number 
of external regulatory inspections or renewals: 
 ► AAK – FlyArystan’s Initial AOC certification, 
Air Astana’s AOC renewal audit, 
certification inspection of Maintenance 
Repair Organisation, inspection of 
Continuing Airworthiness Management 
Organisation (CAMO), scheduled and 
unscheduled inspections of Maintenance 
Organisation
 ► Air Astana underwent AMO renewal 
approvals from 6 external aviation 
authorities
 ► Irish Aviation Authorities – conducted 
Aircraft Certificate of Airworthiness 
renewals for 48 aircraft
 ► EASA – Part 145 and Part 147 renewals 
audits
 ► Ramp Inspections – Air Astana Group 
operations and aircraft underwent 23 
European Civil Aviation Conference (ECAC) 
SAFA (Safety Assessment of Foreign 
Aircraft) and eight ramp (non-ECAC) 
inspections
Within the internal compliance monitoring 
programme, we conducted nearly 240 
compliance audits based on IOSA SARPS and 
national regulations. Compliance monitoring 
is also supported by membership of the IATA 
Fuel Quality Pool (IFQP). 
Sustainable resources and relationships Health and safety continued Sustainable resources and relationships Health and safety continued
Reported accidents 
In 2024, Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) received 234 OHS reports summarising incidents, 
hazardous working conditions, dangerous actions and near misses. The most common types of 
work-related injuries reported were occupational bruises and physical traumas. These incidents 
primarily occurred during core operational activities, including ground handling, aircraft 
maintenance, and in-flight cabin services.
2024 2023 2022
Number of incidents 47 41 112
Recordable work-related injuries 30 29 17
Number of employees 6,546 6,499 6,184
Total accident rate (TAR) 4.58 4.46 2.75
Lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) 3.28 3.24 2.78
Fatal injury rate (FIFR) - - -
Number of hours worked 9,138,297 8,950,617 6,115,108
Accident severity ratio 39.39 40.17 25.40
High-consequence work-related injuries 
(excluding fatalities) - - -
Occupational morbidity ratio - - -
The Group’s OHS Committee includes all employees at CEO-1,-2,-3 levels due to their high level 
of responsibility in decision-making. Employees at other levels contribute to the decisions made 
by the Committee by completing health and safety surveys. In addition, they take part in 
internal audit procedures for the occupational health and safety management system. 
We have implemented an IQSMS to process occupational health and safety requests instantly, 
while more-significant requests are discussed at the OHS Committee meetings. The Committee 
holds monthly sessions with a primary focus on discussing working conditions. The Group’s 
management pays considerable attention to improving the working conditions of employees.
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202460   61   
Safety programmes 
In 2024, our flight-data monitoring analysed 
more than 99% of flights. This is to identify 
and assess existing operational risks and take 
relevant action based on trends and root 
causes. We have incorporated elements of 
evidence-based training (i.e. data and 
lessons learnt from both the flight 
management system and safety 
investigations reports) into the training 
system for pilots, with positive results.
We continue to encourage operational staff 
to report hazards and errors as an important 
element of our safety culture. Over the year, 
more than 4,000 safety reports were 
registered, enabling us to maintain an 
accurate perception of risk. 
The Prevention of Use of Unauthorised 
Substances programme for safety-sensitive 
aviation activity staff (SSAA) continued in 2024. 
Pilot drug checks were expanded with a 
campaign starting in May 2024 that includes 
drug tests during induction training, before and 
after flights, and on any other available days 
according to their roster - 326 pilots were 
tested. 
The Group’s Fatigue Risk Management (FRM) 
programme enables Crew Planning & Control 
to estimate the alertness of crews and make 
necessary adjustments to rostering based on 
trends. In addition, flight and cabin crew 
increasingly used the self-assessment tool, 
Crew Strain Application (CSA) to provide 
feedback on fatigue levels, workload, roster 
and rest conditions, particularly during the 
busy summer months. Biomathematical 
threshold was set in April 2024 using in crew 
rostering at the planning stage. This measure 
helped pre-emptively reduce fatigue risk.
We continued a process of efficient 
communication between departments and 
stakeholders on the management of change 
and relevant risk assessment (RA). The most 
common RAs carried out in 2024 related to 
aerodrome changes, conflict zones, 
regulatory changes and specific changes 
related to FlyArystan operator certification,  
as well as for new routes or destinations 
including charter and scheduled flights.
We made further progress enhancing the 
Wildlife Hazard Management Plan in 2024, 
focusing on Almaty and Astana airports. The 
experts reports gave recommendations for 
each airport on habitat control and data 
management. 
Having stated this, the birdstrike rate 
increased 33% from 2023 and although the 
season is over, the high incident rate remains 
a concern. A related project with UK experts 
will continue at Astana and regional airports 
in 2025.
We are a major contributor to a number of 
international safety organisations and 
programmes, set up to enhance safety and 
operational efficiency, including IATA Global 
Aviation Data Management. Through our 
membership of the Association of Asia Pacific 
Airlines, we participate in safety and security 
workgroups, which allows us to stay abreast 
of the latest technology, innovations and 
processes, while also ensuring our safety 
programme managers interact with leading 
professionals. Similarly, membership of Flight 
Safety Foundation (since 2004) stimulates an 
environment conducive to improvement. 
In October 2024, we hosted our 8th Regional 
Safety Seminar, to promote and encourage 
safety within the region. Entitled Proactive 
Safety: Resilient and robust safety culture, 
the seminar aimed to share knowledge, 
experience and best practice within the 
aviation industry. It was attended by 
representatives from eight countries, with  
20 speakers and over 200 participants from 
other airlines, aircraft manufacturers, 
international organisations and regulators. 
Highlights 
   As part of the IPO 
launch, management 
developed an 
employee share option 
programme. All 
employees who met 
the programme’s 
criteria became 
shareholders in 
February 2025
   Ten years ago, in 2014, 
the Group introduced 
the HEART values and 
held our first awards 
ceremony to recognise 
the best employees
   Since 2010, and up until 
2024, 75% of KC Talents 
programme graduates 
have been promoted 
within Air Astana Group
Material issues
Employment, Training and 
development, Procurement 
practices
Guidelines we follow 
Republic of Kazakhstan 
legislation: 
Labour Code; Customs Law; 
National Economics Ministry 
rules and orders; Customs 
Union Committee resolutions; 
authorised permits of the 
National Security Committee, 
the Ministries of Digital 
Development, Defense and 
Aerospace Industry (Committee 
of Telecommunication), the 
Committee of Industrial 
Development and Industrial 
Safety of the Ministry of 
Investment and Development, 
the Committee of State Income of 
the Ministry of Finance; Tax Law.
Other:  
Group strategy; Corporate goals 
and values; Conditions of 
service; Code of Ethics; 
Anti-corruption Policy; Policy 
for Prevention and Settlement 
of Conflicts of Interest; 
regulations of the Procurement 
and Supply Department; labour 
codes of countries where we 
base our employees; Collective 
agreements with trade unions; 
IATA Standards; EASA 
regulations; National standards; 
ICAO regulations; Incoterms 
2020; Dangerous Goods 
Regulations of IATA; Rules of 
Cargo Insurance; Eurasian 
Economic Union Treaty; 
Customs Clearance Procedure.
As one of the major employers in 
Kazakhstan, we pride ourselves on 
attracting and retaining some of the 
best talent, thanks to our strong focus 
on recognition, development and 
equality. In 2024, we continued to 
improve operational excellence 
through investing in our people – 
particularly in our training programmes 
and employee engagement, 
underpinning our continued success  
in providing best-in-class services. 
Employees 
Approach 
The long-term sustainable success of the Group’s business 
depends on the expertise, skills and motivation of our 
employees. As a socially responsible organisation, we recruit, 
appraise and reward employees based on merit and help them 
develop to their maximum potential. Our workplace 
environment – based on our corporate HEART (Air Astana) and 
CHARM (FlyArystan) values – is one where recognition, 
development and equality all thrive to ensure that we attract 
and retain talented people. We operate our business with the 
highest standards of integrity and ethics, which is also reflected 
in the transparency and fairness of our recruitment process. 
Employment 
We are one of the few non-accounting firms in Kazakhstan to 
receive the prestigious Platinum status award from the 
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) in their 
Employer – Trainee Development programme. Being recognised 
as an ACCA-approved employer reflects our commitment to 
meeting the highest standards in training and developing 
financial professionals.
In 2024 we maintained a strong focus on recruiting for key 
operational roles, including pilots, engineering and ground service 
staff. The recruitment process for cadets in ab-initio pilot and 
apprentice aviation technician training programmes continued, while 
we also revived the selection process for flight attendant candidates. 
As part of our Employer brand enhancement  efforts, we successfully 
launched an internship programme, welcoming almost 400 interns 
to various departments. The largest group of interns went to Ground 
Services, with additional placements in departments such as Finance, 
IT, HR, Marketing, and many others. This initiative provided valuable 
experience and helped build a strong pipeline of future talent. 
Sustainable resources and relationships
Our people
Sustainable resources and relationships Health and safety continued
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202462   63   
Sustainable resources and relationships Our people continued Sustainable resources and relationships Our people continued
To further enhance awareness and attract talent 
to aviation professions, we fostered close 
partnerships with educational institutions across 
Kazakhstan. We organised more than 200 online and 
offline events, significantly increasing the number 
of applications for pilot and aviation technician 
training programmes, as well as ensuring a steady 
inflow of candidates for other operational roles. 
In pilot recruitment, the Group continued its global 
recruitment strategy, with 2024 seeing the addition of 
new pilots from beyond the local market. Alongside 
candidates from Kazakhstan, pilots from the CIS 
countries, Europe, Latin America and other regions 
joined the airline, strengthening its global team.
These efforts reflect our ongoing commitment to 
attracting and developing top talent, ensuring the 
continued growth and success of the Group. 
Apprentices from 2023 intake are now promoted 
to Junior mechanics as at September 2024.
In 2024, the Group employed 6,546 people (2023: 
6,499). We hired a total of 818 new employees 
during the year (in 2023: 1,077): 596 at Almaty (in 
2023: 725); 216 across other Kazakhstan cities (in 
2023: 344); and 6 at international stations (in 
2023: 8). The gender split across new employees 
was 421 women (in 2023: 543) and 397 men (in 
2023: 534). The age group breakdown was: 582 
employees under 30 (in 2023: 742), 215 aged 30-50 
(in 2023: 306), 21 aged over 50 (in 2023: 29). The 
rate of hire in 2024 was 12% (in 2023: 17%).
The age profile of the Group remains relatively 
young, with more than 70% younger than 40: 
aged under 30 – 2,568; aged 30–50 – 3,455; aged 
over 50 – 523 employees. The turnover rate from 
the total number of employees is 12.31% (2023: 
11.96%), which is within the normal range. In 
2024, we updated the approach for the turnover 
rate calculation to ensure greater alignment with 
best practices.
A total of 806 employees left the company during 
the year (in 2023: 777): 529 from Almaty (in 2023: 
459), 271 from other Kazakhstan cities (in 2023: 
296), and 6 from international stations (in 2023: 
22). The turnover included 449 women (in 2023: 
442) and 357 men (in 2023: 335), with 413 aged 
under 30 (in 2023: 407), 326 aged 30–50 (in 2023: 
311), and 67 aged over 50 (in 2023: 59).
Pilot training  
programme
Total number of 
graduates since 
the start of the 
programme
282
Number of cadets  
in 2024
30
Growth in the 
number of cadets 
in 2024
11 
Planned number 
of cadets in 2025
40
Apprentice 
programme
Total number of 
apprentices since 
the start of the 
programme
18
Diversity and equal opportunities 
We promote diversity and equal opportunity in 
the workplace, believing every employee should 
be able to fulfil their potential, regardless of 
gender, age, nationality, religion or physical 
characteristics. We consider that cultural diversity 
and success go hand in hand: different 
nationalities bring different perspectives and 
experiences, broadening our thinking and ideas, 
which are valuable assets to the Group. 
We provide equal opportunities for men and women 
regardless of age or nationality, creating a truly 
diverse workforce of highly skilled people in many 
countries and continents. We employ 3,882 women 
and 2,664 men, from different nationalities and 
ethnic groups, with diverse backgrounds, faiths and 
beliefs. This provides a stimulating and fair working 
environment for everyone. We believe strongly that 
gender and diversity should not be barriers to career 
progression within the Group. At the senior 
management level, comprising 45 people, the 
gender split currently is 49% female and 51% male.
Remuneration for each category of 
employees is set regardless of gender
All employees, regardless of gender, are entitled to 
parental leave in accordance with the Labor Code 
of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
Our position on equality also includes entitlement 
to parental leave regardless of gender although, in 
practice, more women than men exercise this 
right. In 2024, 256 employees took parental leave 
(15 men and 241 women). In 2023, 231 employees 
took parental leave (17 men and 214 women). 
This year, we revised our approach to 
reporting parental leave, disclosing only 
employees who took leave during the 
reporting period, rather than the accumulated 
total from previous years. The total number of 
employees who returned to work in the 
reporting period after parental leave ended 
was 207 (in 2023: 186): male – 20, (in 2023: 
15), female – 187, (in 2023: 171). Return to work 
in 2024 was 74% (in 2023: 67%): male – 67%, 
(in 2023: 68%), female – 75%, (in 2023: 67%). 
We believe professional growth and 
development should be the right of all our 
employees, including those with disabilities. 
The total number of employees who returned 
to work after parental leave ended that were 
still employed 12 months after their return to 
work in 2024 was 170 (in 2023: 233): male - 14 
(in 2023: 14), female - 156 (in 2023: 219). 
Retention rate in 2024 was 91% (in 2023: 69%): 
male - 93% (in 2023: 67%), female - 91% (in 
2023: 69%). 
We continue to look for opportunities, and in 
June 2023, a person with a disability joined us 
as an intern and continues to work successfully. 
We are proud to have created an inclusive and 
friendly work environment, which has also led 
to improved team productivity and provided 
equal opportunities now and in the future. 
In 2024 there were no registered cases of 
discrimination.
Freedom of association 
The Group acknowledges the right of 
employees to join trade unions, which 
protect and support their interests, and 
conducts negotiations with three trade 
unions: 
1. 
 A non-governmental organisation (NGO) 
«Local Labor Union of Aviation workers of 
Kazakhstan»
2. «Local Air Astana Pilot Labour Union»
3. 
 «AVIATOR Pilot» Labour Union of  
Air Astana JSC
We aim always to prevent labour disputes 
before they arise. The internal labour 
regulations outline the procedures for 
employees to address grievances about 
working conditions, make recommendations 
or address other issues within the Group. 
Direct supervisors, department heads and 
overseeing business partners are involved in 
resolving problems. 
Additionally, we engage internal mediators to 
facilitate the resolution of employee problems. 
Trade unions exist to balance the opinions of 
employee representatives and participate in 
committees within the framework of labour 
legislation. We inform every employee they 
may join a trade union at any time. 
In 2023, a collective three-year term 
agreement between employee and employer 
representatives and the Agreement on the 
Conciliation Commission for the Resolution of 
Individual Labour Disputes was also signed.
Competitive salaries and benefits
To attract and retain a highly skilled and 
motivated workforce, the Group provides fixed 
and variable pay as well as short-term and 
long-term benefits that are competitive and 
merit-based. All employees undergo an 
annual performance appraisal and, as a result, 
have their salaries reviewed.  
Following the principles of responsible 
management, we closely monitor the 
economic dynamics of the market and 
support the welfare of our employees. 
To enhance competitiveness and improve 
working conditions for employees, in 2024 
we took measures to review and 
significantly increase the hourly flight-time 
rate for cabin crew.
Air Astana’s IPO in February was a landmark 
event in the Company’s history, made possible 
by all employees. The pursuit of high standards, 
hard work and dedication of each employee 
has played a significant role in its success.
As part of the IPO launch, management 
developed an employee share option plan 
for Air Astana. All employees who met the 
criteria became shareholders of the Company 
in February 2025.
This is a special gift on behalf of the first 
shareholders of the Company, as well as the 
result of the management’s efforts that led 
to the creation and implementation of this 
programme, unique in Kazakhstan, for 
employee participation in the company’s 
capital.
Our benefits package is available to all 
employees, whether permanent, temporary 
or part-time. However, some benefits are 
only available after passing the probation 
period. Our employee benefits package 
includes: 
 ► Corporate pension plan 
 ► Health and medical insurance
 ► Loss-of-licence insurance for pilots 
 ► Mental health support through the 
services of psychologists
 ► Discounts on flights with Group or partner 
airlines 
 ► Shuttle bus for commuting to and from 
work 
 ► Discounts for gym membership and in 
restaurants, bars and hotels 
 ► Support for various sporting activities 
(football and volleyball teams, etc)
In line with national labour legislation, we 
pay compensation to employees when they 
reach retirement age and their contract is 
terminated, the amount paid depending on 
the length of service:
 ► Two months’ salary for up to 10 years’ 
uninterrupted service 
 ► Three months’ salary for employment of 
more than 10 years’ uninterrupted service 
If an employee participates in the corporate 
pension plan and reaches pension age in 
accordance with the labour legislation of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan and upon dismissal of 
an employee aged 58 years or more, the 
employee receives the full payment provided 
by the terms of the plan. The interest rate is 
14.05% per annum; the annual effective 
interest rate was 15.2% in 2024. 
Total workforce 
6,546
Female 
3,882
Male 
2,664
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202464   65   
Employee engagement 
The HEART Way 
In 2014, Air Astana launched a project to 
define and promote the Company’s core 
values. At that time, the airline’s leaders 
came together to identify the key aspects of 
our work and encapsulated them in a single, 
meaningful word – HEART. Each value was 
already an integral part of our daily 
operations: Hospitality, Efficiency, Activity, 
Reliability, and Trustworthy.
For the past ten years, the phrase “I’m part 
of HEART” has symbolised being part of 
aviation and Air Astana.
Since then, HEART values have been deeply 
embedded in the our HR processes. Each 
value represents competencies and skills our 
employees embody. Based on the HEART 
competency model, we evaluate candidates 
during the hiring process, select top 
employees, and incorporate HEART into 
annual performance assessments. Training 
materials from our Training Academy are 
carefully designed to strengthen skills in 
alignment with the HEART model.
HEART values have become a living reflection 
of the Company’s corporate culture and 
continue to serve as guiding principles for 
employees, setting expectations for their 
daily work. We firmly believe that adhering 
to these values will help us remain a strong 
team of professionals.
Recognition culture 
In the same year we presented the HEART 
values, 2014, we held our first awards 
ceremony to recognise the best employees. 
2024 continued the theme, as we once 
again celebrated the achievements of 150 
top employees across the Company. As per 
tradition, we selected the 20 best of the 
best and presented them with a special 
Company award – a seven-day trip for them 
and their families.
To foster a culture of recognition and 
feedback, the Company operates the KC 
Recognition system, through which 
employees sent over 26,000 messages of 
appreciation in 2024. These messages are 
public, while private feedback is sent through 
KC Feedback, visible only to the employee 
and their manager.
An annual event, Breakfast with the CEO, 
serves as an opportunity to honour employees 
for their years of service. In 2024, over 170 
employees who have been with the Company 
for ten years, and nearly 80 employees with 
20 years of service, received awards.
Human rights 
We promote and uphold human rights, 
including the eradication of slavery in all its 
forms. We truly believe that slavery, forced or 
compulsory labour, and human trafficking, 
are serious violations of human rights that 
have no place in our operations. We operate 
in a responsible and ethical manner, and 
ensure our business practices do not 
contribute to any form of modern slavery. We 
have not identified any instances of slavery, 
forced or compulsory labour, or human 
trafficking, in our operations.
Talent management 
Talent management is a strategic and 
systematic process of identifying, attracting 
and planning for employees with high 
potential and leadership aspirations. The 
developing and improving their skills is a 
prerequisite for the Group’s sustainable 
development. Our talent management 
programme focuses on search and selection, 
talent development and retention, people 
performance management, succession 
planning and leadership development, and 
culture and values. 
KC Talents Programme: Developing future 
leaders
Since its launch in 2010, the ‘KC Talents’ 
programme has played a key role in 
identifying and developing future leaders 
within the Air Astana Group. Designed to 
identify and nurture high-potential employees, 
the programme prepares them for managerial 
roles through strategic learning, mentorship, 
and real business challenges. 
The mid-term development programme is 
launched by Air Astana Training Academy 
with leading business school De Montfort 
University KZ. It includes leadership 
development modules, covering topics such 
as Strategic Planning, Financial Intelligence, 
and Managing Change, workshops, 
masterclasses and mentorship with the 
Group’s leaders, coaching, practical 
assignments and cross-functional projects.
Since 2010, and up until 2024, 75% of 
programme graduates have been promoted 
within Air Astana Group. In 2024, 14 participants 
successfully completed the programme.
Training and development 
People development – corporate 
training
During 2024, we continued to focus on 
developing our management teams, in 
particular as they move into a supervisory or 
managerial role. As such, we launched a new 
In-boarding Orientation workshop to equip 
newly promoted employees with an essence 
of the core skills needed as a leader, and to 
provide practical strategies to be effective in 
their new roles, address new challenges and 
align team goals with Company objectives. The 
focus on our Leadership Essentials programme 
continued, aiming to provide new and current 
managers with skills in managing people. More 
than 500 participants are in progress and 277 
completed the course in 2024. 
In addition, the Academy ran four skill-
development modules, based on business 
demands for different levels of employees. 
These were Conflict Management, Stress 
Management, Peer Feedback and Building 
High-Performing Teams, attended by more 
than 500 employees. 
We developed a newly updated OJT (on-the-
job training) programme and completed ten 
sessions with attendance of more than 100 
Ground Services and Ticketing & Reservation 
(T&R) employees.
To improve linguistic ability, we offered 
language training in English (333 employees 
completed) and Kazakh (38 employees 
completed). To focus on our new joiners to 
the Group, our Orientation Welcome day ran 
62 times, covering more than 1,000 
newcomers. 
The average number of training hours per 
employee was 50.43 hours (in 2023: 6.32 
hours). The significant increase in the hours 
of training per employee is due to the 
improvement of the training hours 
accounting process. The collection of 
gender-specific data was not feasible for 
prior year, as the system did not support this 
functionality. The breakdown by employee 
category is as follows:
 ► Per female employee: 37.34 hours 
 ► Per male employee: 69.50 hours
 ► Per employee from operational 
category: 
57.96 hours (in 2023: 8.5 hours) 
 ► Per employee from administrative 
category: 
14.57 hours (in 2023:  
4.9 hours)
In 2024, a total of 155,262 hours were 
dedicated to skill-enhancement programmes, 
accounting for 47.03% of all training, 
330,124 hours.
We do not provide transition assistance 
programmes. 
Sustainable resources and relationships Our people continued Sustainable resources and relationships Our people continued
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202466   67   
E-learning – corporate training
Our online library provides access to 
high-quality self-learning courses, books and 
materials. These are all aligned to the HEART 
values and corporate skills, aiming for a 
culture of self-development across the 
company. We continued with a blended-
learning approach in our training, with a  
mix of e-learning, webinars and classroom 
programmes. In addition to the already 
extensive library of online courses, we have 
42 new external CBTs, 40 Harvard Business 
Review articles and 53 summary books. This 
accounts for a 20% increase in Computer 
Based Training (CBT) and 32% in reading 
materials in 2024. All these self-learning 
materials in LMS are available for Air Astana 
and FlyArystan employees free of charge. Our 
investment in the Training Resource 
Management System (TRMS) cloud application 
resulted in three new releases, with more 
than 250 business tasks implemented and all 
historical training data for 2023-2024 now 
uploaded into the system. All data about 
training planning (both for Air Astana and 
FlyArystan), which are delivered by the 
Training Academy, are now in the one system. 
This helps with reports and issues, and 
invoicing training for FlyArystan.
Operational training
Cabin-safety training
A key achievement in 2024 was acquiring 
and installing new safety mock-ups at the Air 
Astana Flight Training Centre in Astana. The 
Cabin Emergency Evacuation Trainer (CEET) 
and Real Fire Fighting Trainer (RFFT) have 
significantly reduced crew training costs 
previously incurred by sending pilots and 
cabin crew to foreign training centres.  
Both simulators are leading-edge, and can 
simulate different types of emergency 
procedures and fire fighting in a realistic 
environment. 
Ground Services safety training
A key achievement recognised at the Annual 
Safety awards was the development of a 
specialised training programme on the safe 
transport of radiopharmaceuticals for the 
Ground Services department. This initiative 
ensures the rapid air transport of critical 
medications, improving recovery chances  
for seriously ill patients. Another recognition 
at the ceremony for 2024 was the impact 
de-escalation training had on front-line 
employees’ ability to deal with conflict, 
aggressive behaviour and physical violence, 
which occurs, albeit rarely. This course was 
developed jointing by the Academy team, 
with Ground Services, Corporate Trainers and 
the E-learning team, and has resulted in a 
decrease in safety reports on this topic.
Training courses conducted included 54 initial 
training sessions for new agents and cadets 
in passenger, baggage and ramp handling. 
This programme, as with all our courses, 
complies with IATA standards and national 
regulations, guaranteeing the highest levels 
of safety and professionalism. We conducted 
153 aviation security courses and 108 
dangerous goods courses for various personnel 
categories across the Group, ensuring strict 
compliance with safety protocols. We also 
conducted 20 load-control courses, ensuring 
precise application of aircraft weight and 
balance principles during loading procedures.
Engineering and maintenance training 
Engineering and Maintenance (E&M) is highly 
regulated under the key authority bodies, 
including EASA Part-147/145, ICAO, and AAK, 
undergoing regular audits, as do all 
operational departments. This year, we 
successfully completed audits from EASA, 
Qatar Airways, FlyDubai and Turkish Airlines. 
For specific training initiatives, the team 
conducted six A320 Part-147-type training 
courses, totalling 101 training days, with  
67 participants. Additionally, we delivered  
90 Approved Training Organisation (ATO) 
training sessions covering 17 subjects 
(including Module 10, Part-145, SAFA, EWIS, 
ETOPS, FTS and mandatory continuation 
training) in over 301 training days, with  
a total of 963 engineering employees.
In 2024, we launched a Part-66 training 
programme for our current engineering 
employees, with 16 participants, which is 
scheduled to be completed in April 2025.  
The course consists of 15 theoretical modules 
that must be passed, allowing individuals to 
proceed toward obtaining an EASA B1.1/B2 
licence. Additionally, the Apprenticeship 
Part-66 project, which began in September 
2024, focuses on both theoretical and 
practical components. This programme is 
designed for ten students with a two-year 
training duration.
We trained over 400 engineers within our 
current maintenance providers, at multiple 
locations in our procedural agreements, 
including all international stations. Training 
was arranged for new customers: EAT, 
EgyptAir, FlyArystan, Indigo and VietJet.  
Air Astana’s maintenance now also serves 
FlyArystan as a customer.
As part of our strategy to increase our 
external customer base for maintenance, we 
organised B737, A330 and B777-type training 
to improve our capacity and extend aircraft 
licences. The goal is for our in-house trainers 
to conduct type training for the B787, B767 
and B737 aircraft once the necessary 
approvals are obtained.
Ticketing and Reservations training 
A core focus in Ticketing and Reservations 
(T&R) in 2024 was to develop a Flight 
Disruption course, a need highlighted by our 
customer experience (CX) data. The main 
objectives were to train agents to 
independently navigate schedule changes 
and to be able to rebook in accordance with 
procedures, and to think more widely about 
rebooking options, including routes on 
partner airlines – all of which will speed up 
managing customer disruptions.
The T&R team collaborated effectively with 
key departments such as CX, Service 
Recovery and Delay units, demonstrating a 
unified approach to training and to what 
customers need in these situations. The final 
course is a two-day blended learning course: 
an online pre-course and two days of 
classroom training, and over 16.5% of T&R 
employees attended in 2024. Based on 
feedback (4.9 out of 5) and positive reviews 
from training participants, it was decided to 
include this course as a mandatory part of 
the learning pathway for new employees in 
T&R. This emphasises our commitment to 
continuous professional development.
Flight operations training
The flight operations training department 
continues to provide training in accordance 
with Kazakhstan regulatory requirements and 
ICAO standards, as well as IATA requirements. 
All 588 current pilots completed annual-
recurring ground and simulator training in 
accordance with Operational Manual Part D 
(OM-D). During 2024, we recruited and trained 
82 new pilots, and two new type rating 
examiners, six type rating instructors and 
eight line-training instructors successfully 
completed qualifying training courses. For 
other groups in 2024, three ab initio cadets 
graduated, 18 First Officers attended 
Command Upgrade Training (promotion  
from First Officer to Captain) and 53 pilots 
completed initial type rating courses on A320 
and B767. The total number of cadet graduates 
since the start of the programme is 282, total 
growth of ab initio was 11 in 2024, and the 
planned number in 2025 is 40 cadets.
We launched our new programme, Running 
the Show, in May 2023 to prepare First Officers 
for future commander roles, with 115 
participating in 2024. Since we launched the 
L3 Harris A320 Full Flight Simulator Training at 
the Flight Training Centre in Astana in summer 
2023, all pilots have attended training and 
checking, and completed 7,300 simulator 
hours during 2,039 simulator sessions. 
Sustainable resources and relationships Our people continued Sustainable resources and relationships Our people continued
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202468   69   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
Sustainable resources and relationships Our people continued
Customer service training 
In 2024, the Customer Service Training Unit 
provided sales and service promotion 
programmes for both front-line and back-
office support employee, as well as for 
external clients, aimed at improving service 
quality, operational efficiency, and workforce 
development and engagement. Initial training 
is 48% of the total unit training activities and 
is aimed at new hires and role-specific skill 
development. In total, we completed 38 
courses covering over 500 people for Ground 
Services, T&R and Cabin Crew and ran 
graduation ceremonies for all uniformed 
employees, to congratulate them on passing 
initial training for both safety and service.
Recurrent training covers 36% of the total 
unit training activities, focusing on refreshing 
skills for experienced employees and 
maintaining service standards. In total we run 
45 courses covering more than 850 Air Astana 
cabin crew in service and standards, and more 
than 70 in sales for FlyArystan crew. 
Promotion training covers 6% of the unit 
training courses, designed to prepare 
employees for leadership roles and 
collectively IFS/PU/FJ courses covered  
85 employees..
Training for specialised roles accounts for 5% 
of the unit training activities and is aimed at 
enhancing customer experience and 
operational efficiency. Courses completed in 
2024 include: Lounge The Shanyraq Agents: 
two courses, 15 trainees; HR and Crew Service 
Centres: four courses, 36 trainees; Outstation 
Supervisors: one course, four trainees and; 
Summer Taskforce Volunteers: three courses, 
64 trainees.
Training external clients take up 5% of 
training. We conducted six external courses 
with 76 participants, which included Border 
Control of Almaty airport, Committee of 
National Security and L’Occitane cosmetics. 
Training Academy – in summary 
The Academy continues to focus on aligning 
customer experience and training with our 
core business objectives of efficiency, 
excellence and growth. Our blended-training 
approach continues to promote efficiency 
and productivity with self-learning education 
growth, and our continual focus on 
benchmarking our training in technical, 
operational safety and customer service as 
well as our leadership development, 
improves excellence and supports growth. 
Our brand is further enhanced with our 
training to external clients, including, but not 
limited, to Prime Aviation, Comlux, Lufthansa, 
Kazaviaspas, Global Express Limited, JSC 
Almaty International Airport, MED Invest 
Group. Our E&M, Operational and Customer 
Service teams were involved in delivering 
programmes, both to airlines and non-airlines. 
The ability to train external clients in both 
commercial and other sectors demonstrates 
our credibility as a training leader beyond 
aviation, and makes the unit a fully-fledged 
revenue-generating department. In 2024, we 
beat our revenue target by 25%.
Finally, in 2024 we were awarded by 
American Chamber of Commerce, the Most 
Innovative Education Training Programme, 
and by Global Brands Magazine based in the 
UK, Best International Airline Brand in Central 
Asia & CIS and Best Aviation Training Centre 
in Central Asia & CIS.
Sustainable resources and relationships Our people continued
Suppliers 
To meet our operational need for high-
quality goods and services delivered in a 
timely manner, we have maintained and 
expanded our broad-based supply chain.  
We continue to build long-term relationships 
with suppliers of all sizes, from small 
businesses to multinational corporations, 
while integrating sustainability principles  
into our procurement strategy.
Procurement practices
Our procurement process follows 
international best practice, ensuring 
transparency and equal opportunity for all 
potential suppliers. Our framework includes 
procurement procedures, management 
standards and strict compliance rules.
Key advances in 2024
We approved our Procurement Standard, 
incorporating sustainability criteria for 
suppliers. This includes supporting human 
rights, combatting modern slavery, embracing 
diversity and inclusion, preventing corruption, 
and minimising environmental impact. We 
continued our commitment to including 
organisations that employ disabled people. In 
2024, we secured agreements for stickers for 
salt and pepper shakers, business-class 
blankets, protective gloves, and knitted gloves 
from organisations who employ people with 
disabilities. We made preparations for the 
Sustainable Supply Chain Finance (SSCF) 
Programme in collaboration with the EBRD. 
This initiative strengthens suppliers and aligns 
them with the sustainability goals of their 
buyers, fostering a resilient and eco-friendly 
supply-chain ecosystem.
Overcoming challenges
Our agile supply-chain processes enabled us 
to re-route major supplies in compliance with 
UK, EU, and US sanctions, ensuring 
uninterrupted operations. Logistics teams 
closely monitor internal processes, freight 
forwarders, optimal routes and delivery 
methods to maintain a lean and agile supply 
chain, reducing overheads and improving 
profitability.
Purchases from local suppliers
We remain committed to sourcing goods and 
services from local suppliers within 
Kazakhstan. By prioritising partnerships with 
local businesses, we contribute to the 
socio-economic growth of the country while 
ensuring cost-efficient procurement. Our 
2024 initiatives reinforce our long-term ESG 
commitments, creating a more sustainable, 
responsible and resilient supply chain that 
supports both operational excellence and 
corporate sustainability goals.
2024 2023 2022
Percentage of the procurement budget used for significant 
locations of operation* that is spent on suppliers local to operations 
(percentage of products and services purchased locally)
32% 31% 26%
* The territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202470   71   
Sustainable resources and relationships
Communities
We believe it is important to nurture 
strong relationships with the 
communities where we operate. We 
focus on initiatives that can deliver  
a meaningful community impact 
through sustainability, inclusivity  
and long-term positive outcomes. 
Our approach and methodology have 
remained consistent since we established  
a formal social projects framework in 2022:
 ► Long-term corporate social and 
environmental projects
 ► Cooperating with local and national 
charities and other not-for-profit 
organisations
 ► Providing targeted support to groups most 
in need of assistance, including sick 
children, persons with disabilities and 
veterans of the Great Patriotic War
 ► Employee involvement in charitable 
activities through fundraising and 
volunteering opportunities
The criteria we use to identify and select 
charities and funding projects are based on 
the value they bring to communities and 
their alignment with our ESG goals and 
corporate values.
Projects implemented in 2024
Project Description
Humanitarian aid 
during floods in 
Western Kazakhstan
In response to the severe spring flooding in several regions of the country , the Air Astana Group took the initiative to provide 
humanitarian aid. A total of 75,000 kg of essential supplies from non-gov ernmental organisations and initiative groups were 
delivered to the affected areas. 41 extra relief flights from the region wer e performed. Additionally, Air Astana donated  
USD 2.7 million to support recovery efforts in the flood-affected region s.
Furthermore, our employees initiated a fundraising campaign and col lected essential supplies, which were then sent as 
humanitarian aid.
Zhas Kyran 
programme
Through our Zhas Kyran programme, 56 gifted children from Aksai, Almaty , Astana, Atyrau, Ekibastuz, Karaganda, Taraz, 
Oskemen along with their accompanying guardians, received free airl ine tickets to participate in international academic, sport 
and art competitions and Olympiads across Europe, the US, the UAE, Japan, a nd other countries. This initiative enabled talented 
Kazakhstani children to fulfil their dreams and represent Kazakhsta n on the global stage.
Support for socially 
significant projects
Throughout 2024, we contributed to a number of social projects and initia tives, including support for the presentation of 
Leonardo da Vinci’s painting La Bella Principessa in Astana, fosterin g cultural exchange. Additionally, Air Astana enriched the 
library collections of five Kazakh-language schools in Almaty by donat ing 855 modern illustrated books, fostering educational 
growth and cultural identity. These efforts reflect the company’s ongo ing commitment to advancing cultural and educational 
development in Kazakhstan.
World Knowledge  
Day – library initiative
To mark World Knowledge Day on 1 September 2024, we enriched the library coll ections of five Kazakh-language schools in the 
Turksib district of Almaty by donating 855 modern illustrated books, fos tering educational growth and cultural identity.
Medical transport 
for critically ill 
children
Providing air transport for critically ill children remains a key prior ity. In 2024, four children were able to access life-saving 
medical care abroad through our support. We also assisted the Scientifi c Center for Pediatrics and Pediatric Surgery by 
transporting stem cells for a child’s bone marrow transplant.
Sustainable 
development 
initiative
To promote sustainable development and highlight our commitment to en vironmental responsibility, in June 2024 we donated 
upcycled furniture made from Airbus A321 fuselage materials and Boein g B767 interior structures to the new international 
terminal at the Almaty International Airport.
New Year charity 
event
Ahead of the New Year, we organised a charity event for children with special e ducational needs from the Turksib District 
Psychological, Medical, and Pedagogical Consultation and the Psyc hology-Pedagogical Correction Room, providing 190 holiday 
gifts and childrens’ travel kits. 
Employee-led 
initiatives
Volunteers from the IT department took the initiative to collect and refu rbish 20 decommissioned system units and 20 monitors, 
which were donated to children in need through Connected-ED, a Kazakhst ani public foundation focused on bridging the digital 
divide.
Additionally, 12 decommissioned system units and 12 monitors were ref urbished and donated to the Public Foundation Volunteer 
Society Miloserdie, in response to a request from the Bolashak Associat ion, further demonstrating the team’s commitment to 
community support.
Projects implemented in 2024 (continued)
Project Description
Semey Ormany FlyArystan provided financial support to the Semey Ormany reserve by pur chasing and delivering 570 briquettes, or 159,600 
litres of peat substrate, for growing common pine seedlings. This is equi valent to nearly three greenhouses, capable of growing 
1,325,000 seedlings with a closed root system, intended for planting on 3 15 hectares.
Thanks to FlyArystan’s sponsorship, more than a million common pine see dlings were grown in the greenhouses. As part of the 
project’s final phase, Semey Ormany employees decided to plant the seed lings on the forest cultivation land in the Morozov 
branch, which is expected to improve the region’s ecosystem recovery.
Support of master 
classes for doctors 
in the regions as 
part of the Heart 
Center Foundation 
project
FlyArystan worked with the Heart Center Foundation in an initiative aime d at improving medical care quality and the 
professional level of doctors in Kazakhstan’s regions. The airline pro vided free flights for leading specialists from the UMC Heart 
Center in Astana to various Kazakh cities to share their expertise. 
The joint project between the airline and the Heart Center Foundation began in autumn 2024. Continuing their mission, UMC Heart 
Center specialists, supported by FlyArystan, visited Kostanay. The final stage involved a trip to the Kyzylorda region, where the doctors 
participated in a scientific and practical conference on Innovative Methods in the Diagnosis and Treatment of Cardiovascular Diseases.
Support for these medical master classes in Kazakhstan’s regions is pla nned to continue in 2025.
Support of an 
inclusive project 
aimed at the 
rehabilitation of 
children
FlyArystan supported the Territory of Success public association, w hich is involved in the rehabilitation of people with 
disabilities, including cerebral palsy and Down syndrome.
FlyArystan supported an inclusive project aimed at the rehabilitati on of children. This innovative device plays a crucial role in the 
lives of people with disabilities, enabling them to communicate effect ively with the outside world. For children and adults with 
significant speech and motor impairments, this device serves as a vital ‘ bridge’ to full communication, offering a path to 
independence, productivity, and active participation in professi onal and social life.
Project Komek FlyArystan’s corporate social responsibility project Komek has be en in operation, officially launched on  
1 February 2024. The project’s main goal is to support vulnerable segment s of the population by providing discounts on 
commercial flights. In 204 total of 554 passengers benefited from the pro ject, including 304 discounted passengers and 250 
accompanying persons.
Sustainable resources and relationships Communities continued
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202472   73   
Our risk management processes help promote a 
corporate culture underpinned by risk-averse behavi our.
Risk management is integral to ensuring the long-te rm resilience 
and sustainability of our business, as well as prov iding a platform 
that enables us to respond quickly to changing circ umstances.  
Our Corporate Risk Management System (CRMS) defines  our daily 
operational activities, encompassing governance, pe rformance 
management and internal control practices. The CRMS  is also a 
valuable tool for enabling both the Board of Direct ors and 
management to evaluate our options for creating, en hancing  
and realising value for our shareholders.
We developed the CRMS in line with, and incorporati ng, 
international best practices in risk management. Ou r adoption of 
the ‘COSO Enterprise Risk Management framework – In tegrating 
with Strategy and Performance’ as the basis for our  Risk 
Management Policy further strengthens this alignmen t. In addition 
to the integration of risk management across all in ternal 
processes and functions, the policy ensures we alwa ys consider 
risks when setting strategies and improving perform ance.
Risk management framework
To support the development and implementation of ef ficient risk 
management practices and procedures, the CRMS sets out clearly 
defined roles and responsibilities for the Board of  Directors,  
Audit Committee, Air Astana Group Management and ea ch 
employee. This also helps to reinforce a culture  
underpinned by risk-averse behaviour.
    Sets short- and long-term goals/objectives
    Approves the Risk Management Policy
    Approves other policies for managing specific risks
    Analyses the external auditor’s reports for improving internal 
control and risk management
    Reviews and approves the quarterly Risk Register and Risk Map
     Approves the Group’s risk appetite and tolerance to risk
    Reviews reports from the head of the structural unit 
responsible for risk management with description and analysis 
of the Group’s risks
    Reviews reports on the efficiency of the CRMS
     Reviews quarterly reports on changes to the Risk Map
    Reviews changes to the Risk Register
     Reviews reports on risks
    Reviews risk appetite annually
     Reviews quarterly reports on realised risks
    Reviews reports on any significant deviations  
from the standard risk management process
    Reviews reports on non-compliance with regulatory 
risk management requirements as necessary
Risk responsibilities
To provide a balanced approach to managing risk, we  have adopted the 
Three Lines of Accountability model within our oper ating structure. The 
three lines collaborate and communicate regularly t o ensure a 
comprehensive understanding of risks and controls.
Board of Directors
Primary responsibility for overseeing risk in the  
Group and risk management functions.
Audit Committee
Acts in the interests of shareholders and helps  
the Board oversee the reliability and efficiency  
of the CRMS.
 
   Approves the annual strategic plan for the CRMS
   Organises an efficient CRMS to enable the identification and assessme nt of potential risks
   Reviews and approves the quarterly Risk Register and Risk Map
   Reviews and provides preliminary approval of the an nual risk appetite
   Reviews quarterly reports on realised risks
   Reviews and approves the Key Risk Indicator (KRI) panel annually and consi ders the status of KRIs
    Reviews and approves risk management action plans on risks deemed only par tially effective or  
not effective
   Reviews risk management reports and considers whether adequate measu res have been adopted
   Improves internal risk management procedures
First Line: Air Astana Group structural units and all employees
Structural units and all 
employees participate in 
identifying, assessing and 
managing risk within their  
areas of responsibility.
Control implementation:  Designing, 
implementing and maintaining day-to-day 
internal controls to manage risks within the 
scope of supervised or performed operations.
Monitoring and reporting: Continuously 
monitoring operational performance and 
reporting risk-related issues and control failures 
to the Risk Management unit.
Issue resolution:  Taking corrective action to address 
control deficiencies and mitigate risk.
Third Line: Internal Audit Service
Internal audit assesses the 
adequacy and effectiveness of 
our risk management system, 
and develops recommendations 
(including involving external 
independent consultants).
Risk-based audits: Conducting independent 
assessments of risk management, control 
processes and governance practices.
Evaluating controls: Reviewing the adequacy and 
effectiveness of the CRMS implemented by the first and 
second lines.
Reporting and recommendations: Providing findings, 
insights and recommendations to improve the control 
environment and risk management practices.
Follow-up: Monitoring the implementation of audit 
recommendations and corrective actions.
Second Line: Risk management, internal control and compliance fun ctions, including corporate 
safety compliance and aviation security
The second line oversees and 
supports the first line. It includes 
specialists of risk management 
and compliance functions that 
oversee and facilitate effective  
risk management practices. 
The main functions of the  
Risk Management Unit include, 
but are not limited to:
    Policy development: Establishing risk management policies, regulations, ma nuals and procedures
    Guidance and training:  Providing guidance and training to the first line on  risk management and 
compliance requirements. Developing a risk culture within the Group
    Overseeing risk: Coordinating corporate risk-management activities and ensurin g the first line adheres 
to policies and procedures
    Monitoring compliance and effectiveness:  Assessing compliance with regulatory requirements and 
internal policies, and monitoring the effectiveness of risk managem ent actions
    Reporting: Providing independent risk management and compliance reporting to t he Risk Committee, 
Audit Committee and Board of Directors
Principal risks and uncertainties continuedPrincipal risks and uncertainties
Successful risk management  
is fundamental to  
business longevity  
and sustainability
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202474   75   
fulﬁlling our promises
    
Risk Committee
An advisory-consultative body to the CEO, providing preliminary reviews and 
recommendations for decision-making on risk management issues. Also responsible 
for the integrity and efficient functioning of the CRMS and the development of a risk 
control structure that ensures performance and compliance with our policies.  
Risk name Description Mitigation
Safety risk
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
Effective safety management is critical 
to minimise the potential for incidents 
or accidents. The resulting effects of 
such events could have a significant 
adverse impact on us.
To mitigate risks related to flight safety, we have established a safety-management 
and compliance-monitoring system, through which we conduct compliance and 
performance-monitoring audits, and set and monitor safety-performance indicators. 
We have a human-factors training programme, and place specific emphasis on 
procedural compliance. Specifically in the area of flight-operations training, we have 
invested significantly in training instructors with a strong emphasis on 
standardisation. There are regular independent assessments by regulatory 
authorities, EASA, and CAC Kazakhstan, as well as industry assessments IOSA.
Aviation-security risk
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
Consequences of aviation-security risk 
could adversely affect any airline’s 
performance and reputation. Effective 
management of aviation security risk 
is, therefore, essential to us.
We have all the required policies and procedures for managing aviation security. 
The Aviation Security Division reviews these policies regularly. We provide training 
on aviation security to all required employees and for those whose duties involve 
access to the airport restricted area. We carry out airport audits for compliance on a 
regular basis, ensuring aviation security. We also ensure resilience on all operational 
fronts, with safety and security being the top priority at all times. The aviation-
security risk level has been reduced due to enhanced security measures, regular 
risk assessment and improved cooperation with authorities.
Commercial risk
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
Factors such as intensive market 
competition, government intervention, 
operational limitation, geopolitical 
tensions and rising costs can create 
challenges for us.
In 2024, the Air Astana Group implemented several mitigation actions in response to 
the evolving aviation market in Kazakhstan and the expansion of its network. With 
new destinations introduced by both Air Astana and FlyArystan, we focused on 
proactive risk management by optimising network efficiency, adjusting frequencies 
based on demand, and strategically allocating fleet capacity. Continuous monitoring 
of domestic and global market trends allowed for timely responses to operational 
challenges, ensuring sustainable growth and enhanced resilience.
Human-resources risk (part of ESG risks)
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
Our Human Resources Policy is 
designed to ensure we retain and 
recruit qualified personnel, capable of 
performing their duties effectively and 
productively in line with our strategic 
goals and values, while complying 
with professional and ethical 
regulations. We consider our employees 
to be one of our main assets.
We have fostered equality in the workplace, ensuring a discrimination-free 
environment where people can thrive regardless of gender, age, ethnicity, religion 
or cultural background. Managing human-resources risk involves key areas, 
including recruitment, retaining key personnel, improving the employee experience, 
providing easy access to resources, and facilitating training and development. Our 
HEART values remain a priority in maintaining our working environment.
Risk name Description Mitigation
Health, safety and environment (H&S) risk (part of ESG risks)
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
We understand our moral and ethical 
responsibility to ensure the health and 
safety of our employees, doing all we 
can to protect their physical and 
mental wellbeing. In occupational 
health and safety, we comply with 
national, legal and other regulatory 
requirements, and international rules 
of the aviation industry.
We follow all the procedures needed to provide a high level of occupational 
safety. Our employees are aware of them and kept informed of any changes in 
instructions, which are regularly updated in line with Government gui delines.
To reduce and recycle waste, we educate our employees through instructi ons, 
posters, and events focused on environmental protection. In line with t he 
Ecological Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan, we receive an environment al-
impact declaration for solid, hazardous and non-hazardous waste. We c ollect and 
sort waste for:
    third-party disposal by specialist companies (for hazardous waste su ch as oil, 
used filters, rechargeable batteries, worn tyres, residues of solve nts, paintwork 
materials, aggressive liquids, and used mercury-containing lamp s)
    waste dumping (solid waste) 
    scrap metal, paper waste and PET recycling
Service-quality risk
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
A high level of service is central to our 
activities. Failure to provide it could 
damage our reputation, cause us to 
lose customers, and lead to a 
reduction in the Skytrax ratings for 
Air Astana and FlyArystan.
We aim to provide an exceptional experience for our customers throughou t their 
journey. We offer extensive training programmes to ensure all employee s who 
interact with customers maintain their skills at a high level. We analyse c ustomer 
feedback, and determine how satisfaction scores are affected by product an d 
service changes across different stages of travel.
Climate-related risk
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
(for more information 
see section below, 
‘Managing climate-
related risks’).
The aviation industry faces a complex 
array of climate-related risks that 
require proactive management as part 
of its ESG Strategy. Addressing both 
chronic and acute risks will require 
significant investment in infrastructure, 
technology and operational changes. 
There’s also a need for more openness 
and involvement with stakeholders, as 
we make the transition to a low-carbon 
economy.
We promote sustainable and resilient growth through our sustainability stewardship 
and adherence to evolving environmental regulations. With rising global 
temperatures, changes in climate can affect aircraft performance, particularly during 
take-off and landing, causing significant disruption to flight operations, which can 
lead to delays, cancellations and increased operational costs.
Link to strategyRisk level Risk exposure trend
GrowthVery high
High Moderate
Low Efficiency ExcellenceNo change Decrease Increase New risk
Principal risks and uncertainties continuedPrincipal risks and uncertainties continued
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 77   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202476   
Risk name Description Mitigation
External-communication risk
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
A positive reputation and the brand 
loyalty it generates can be a major 
advantage. The roles of brand image, 
price, service quality, brand preference, 
and brand loyalty reflect our 
competitiveness and are 
intangible assets. 
To operate in the marketplace, we aim to maintain a positive organisationa l 
character with customers, suppliers, business partne rs, employees and the 
surrounding community. We must also manage our reputation and credibi lity with 
the media and regulators, while improving investor sentiment.
Credit risk
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
We are exposed to credit risk, which is 
the risk that a counterparty will cause 
us to suffer a financial loss by failing 
to fulfil its obligation. Our credit risk 
arises mainly from deposits with banks 
and other financial institutions, held 
by counterparties, as well as from 
receivables including those from 
agents selling commercial air 
transportation. We use external 
ratings, such as S&P Global Ratings  
or its equivalent, to measure and 
monitor our exposure to credit risk 
with financial institutions. The default 
of a bank counterparty may adversely 
affect our financial performance and 
stability.
Our Cash Management Policy sets the limits and criteria for counterpart y banks.  
It also establishes standard procedures, such as monitoring our use of ba nk limits, 
actual or forecasted exposure to accredited banks, and reporting to the C hief 
Accountant, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and the Board of Directors. W e review 
internally the new limits for each bank before submitting them to the Board  
of Directors.
We review the policy annually to ensure it is fit for purpose. Also, to manage 
credit risk from other counterparties, we have policies and stringent p rocedures  
in place, and update them regularly.
Our Travel Agent Ticketing Authority Policy establishes guidelines a nd criteria for 
authorising travel agents to issue tickets. It ensures authorised age nts have a 
sound financial standing and adhere to specific standards, reducing t he likelihood 
of defaults. Requiring prepayments and cash deposits from direct agent s adds  
an additional layer of security, giving us a financial guarantee and redu cing the 
impact of defaults or delayed payments. 
Liquidity risk
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
Liquidity risk is the risk that we may 
not be able to meet our present and 
future short-term obligations when 
they fall due. We retain the financial 
flexibility to pursue business 
opportunities, and we have access to 
the liquidity we might need to 
mitigate the effect of unforeseen 
events on cash flows.
We closely monitor our liquidity position through different ratios (cu rrent ratio and 
cash to sales ratio) and continually seek opportunities to obtain banki ng and other 
financial products on the most favourable terms. The successful IPO in Q1 2 024 
strengthened our liquidity position, providing addi tional funds to support growth 
and financial stability.
Risk name Description Mitigation
Jet-fuel risk
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
Fuel expenses remain one of our major 
costs and, like the entire industry, we 
continue to face risks from high 
fuel-price volatility. In 2024, fuel prices 
remained elevated due to ongoing 
geopolitical tensions, supply-chain 
disruptions and production constraints. 
As a consequence, jet-fuel risk remains 
one of our most critical.
For locally sourced fuel, we negotiate prices on a competitive basis with 
Kazakhstani suppliers using agreed and stable contracts. We also main tain 
ongoing negotiations with suppliers regarding price reductions. A nother important 
aspect is our monitoring of alternative suppliers for domestic and inte rnational 
stations. Where there are no restrictions, we also apply a fuel surcharge o n 
international routes as an additional tool for reducing risk.
To reduce our overall consumption of fuel, we have added new, more fuel-
efficient aircraft to our fleet in recent years. These include the Airbus A 320neo, 
Airbus A321neo and Airbus A321LR (with a new engine option). Additional ly, 
several of our pilot-training programmes include skills for efficie nt fuel 
management.
Operational risk
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
Operational risk is where we could 
incur losses as a result of ineffective 
operation activities, such as an excess 
or shortage of operating aircraft, low 
on-time performance or pilot 
shortage.
The risk of not being able to carry out regular flight operations on time due to 
technical or external reasons can lead to significant costs and reputat ional 
damage. We undertake regular delay analysis and delay meetings, and we 
employ the required number of qualified pilots in line with our annual plan , using 
a proven recruitment process. We also provide relevant training to ensu re that we 
maintain the highest professional standards.
Due to external engine issues, we pay particular attention to the risks rel ating to 
fleet size. To manage these, we deliver and redeliver aircraft accordin g to an 
approved fleet plan and based on market conditions.
Cyber and information-security risk
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
Cyber risks are critical in the airline 
sector, as the use of technology is 
increasingly integrated into business 
processes. With greater reliance on 
technology, companies are now more 
exposed to cyber-attacks that could 
lead to data leakage and significant 
reputational and financial losses.
To manage these risks, we have strong cyber-security measures in place, a nd  
we have developed processes to comply with the best industry practices an d 
standards in information security. Our employees undergo regular tr aining on 
information security and familiarisation with our Information Sec urity Policy.
During the extensive period of remote working caused by the global pandemi c, 
we ensured the security of our internet connections by using VPNs and multi-
factor authentication.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks and uncertainties continued
Link to strategyRisk level Risk exposure trend
GrowthVery high
High Moderate
Low Efficiency ExcellenceNo change Decrease Increase New risk
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202478   79   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024

Risk name Description Mitigation
The risk of the failure or severe degradation of mission-critical IT infrastructure
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
Our key processes depend on IT 
services and infrastructure, so 
effective and resilient IT management 
is essential.
To mitigate this risk, we use various required systems and equipment, and c arry 
out regular updates of operational systems and firewall software. We st ore all 
critical data appropriately, and create and monitor online and offlin e back-ups. 
To decrease the risk of virus or hacker attacks, we use antivirus systems and 
firewalls, limit access to local and internet resources, and regularl y update our 
security systems and applications. Also, regular external audits in crease our 
resilience to internal and external risk factors.
Our IT infrastructure is fully geared to support business continuity wi thin the best 
possible limits, with redundancy and back-up system s in place.
Compliance risk (part of ESG risks)
Risk level
Risk exposure trend
Link to strategy
Facing regulatory non-compliance, 
including sanctions breaches, 
alongside risks of corruption, fraud 
and unethical behaviour, represents a 
risk to us. These issues can result in 
legal penalties, financial losses, and 
reputational harm, underscoring the 
need for stringent compliance 
frameworks and ethical governance.
We manage risks relating to non-compliance, sanctio ns breaches and unethical 
behaviour through a proven compliance-management system. This inc ludes 
vigilant monitoring of legislative updates, rigorous due diligenc e, and sanctions 
screening of all counterparties to ensure adherence to legal and ethica l standards. 
The system is bolstered by transparent reporting mechanisms, such as 
whistleblowing lines. We provide comprehensive trai ning for employees, focusing 
on corporate ethics, the prevention of conflicts of interest, sanctio ns and 
compliance issues. Through these measures, along with continuous mo nitoring 
and improvement processes, we not only address potential and actual com pliance 
risks but also reinforce our high standards of integrity and ethical cond uct, 
safeguarding our reputation and operational success .
Insurance
We enhance our risk management 
framework by continuously evaluating its 
insurance strategies in response to evolving 
industry challenges. While complying with 
regulations and our own policies, we aim to 
ensure sustainable operations by obtaining 
the financial protection of our employees, 
liabilities and assets, through insurance. We 
purchase financially sound insurance 
coverage through a transparent process, and 
review this annually.
Aviation insurance
We place our aviation risks in the world’s 
leading insurance markets through 
internationally reputable brokers. We cover 
them through the following policies:
    Aviation Hull, Total Loss Only, Spares 
All Risks and Airline Liability Cover
    Aircraft Repair and Operational Support 
(Hull deductible) Cover
    Aviation Hull and Spares ‘War and Allied 
Perils’ Cover
    Aviation War, Hijacking and Other Perils 
Excess Liability Cover
Non-aviation insurance
We also purchase a range of non-aviation 
insurance policies. These include covering  
our employees for accidents and medical 
expenses, reducing the financial risk of 
damage to our property and interruptions  
to our business, and general liability.
Link to strategyRisk level Risk exposure trend
GrowthVery high
High Moderate
Low Efficiency ExcellenceNo change Decrease Increase New risk
Principal risks and uncertainties continued
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
80   81   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
Established in 2001 and operational since 
2002, Air Astana is Kazakhstan’s flag carrier 
and largest airline brand by revenue and 
fleet size in the Central Asia and Caucasus 
region. As a full-service airline brand, it 
provides scheduled, point-to-point and 
transit, short-haul and long-haul air travel 
and cargo on domestic, regional and 
international routes across Central Asia,  
the Caucasus, the Far East, the Middle East, 
India and Europe. 
The airline has been instrumental in opening 
up the huge country of Kazakhstan, the ninth 
largest in the world, and roughly the size of 
Western Europe. Its tourism and business 
routes, operating from Almaty and Astana, 
allow it to reach Central Asia, the Caucasus, 
Europe, the Middle East and Asia with its 
mostly narrow-body fleet. 
Air Astana’s operating model has changed 
considerably since 2002, with agile responses  
to the Covid pandemic and more-recent 
international conflicts. Its recovery from the 
pandemic was outstanding. Air Astana took 
advantage of the population’s desire to travel 
further afield, and has grown on a fairly steady 
trajectory by offering new flights, initially to 
where PCR tests allowed – the Maldives, 
Thailand, Montenegro. Given the new desire  
of customers to travel, the airline soon added 
flights to Egypt, Greece, Georgia, Turkey and the 
UAE. More recently added destinations include 
China, India, the Middle East, South Korea, Sri 
Lanka and Vietnam. 
A full-service carrier brand
Air Astana services a broad network of 
locations within an approximately seven-hour 
radius of at least one of its Kazakhstan base 
airports, accompanying the more-domestic 
network of its subsidiary brand FlyArystan. 
This allows it to service international routes to 
multiple locations across Europe and Asia. Its 
partnership strategy is to work with carriers 
that provide compelling network distribution 
and opportunity from its hubs, and it currently 
has eight codeshare partners and 84 interline 
agreements. It operates a fleet of young, 
modern fuel-efficient aircraft with a two-class 
configuration across the Airbus A320 family 
and Boeing 767. 
The year’s highlights
     The network of Group continues to grow with 21 
new routes added in 2024 (12 Air Astana new routes 
and 9 FlyArystan). Air Astana expanded capacity on 
its China routes following high demand. It 
strengthened connections to South Korea with 
flights twice-weekly from Astana and daily from 
Almaty, to Seoul. It also announced new lifestyle 
destinations in Vietnam and new route Astana-
Phuket, and boosted presence in the Middle East 
with direct flights to Jeddah and Medina
   In August, Air Astana announced a new codeshare 
agreement with Japan Airlines (JAL),  
one of the world’s best airlines, which will facilitate 
connectivity between Kazakhstan and Japan with 
the upcoming 2026 Almaty-Tokyo route 
   In late 2024, Air Astana established a significant 
partnership with Etihad Airways, enabling customers 
to access key destinations across India, the Middle 
East, and Africa via Abu Dhabi
   In September, it successfully completed the 
installation of the first additional central fuel tanks 
on the Airbus A321LR, extending their range and 
enabling non-stop flights over long-haul distances. 
This enabled the operation of 8- and 9-hour flights 
and the relaunch of non-stop Almaty – London 
service, which previously required a technical stop, 
as well as services to Phu Quoc and Phuket. This 
modernisation is a key component of the long-term 
strategy to enhance operational efficiency. It 
incorporates all the necessary technical and safety 
features, and improves operational performance 
   The airline signed the operating lease of seven 
additional Airbus A321neo LRs, with deliveries 
expected to start from 2026, reflecting its confidence 
in the future of Kazakhstan as an air-transport hub 
   In early 2025 the Group has signed an Memorandum 
of Understanding (MoU) with China Southern 
Airlines, China’s powerhouse airline, for a 
comprehensive set of codeshares across China, 
Kazakhstan and, subject to third country bilateral 
agreement, other countries in East Asia, Central Asia 
and Caucasus. This key partnership, once the MoU 
has been translated into a concrete agreement, will 
accelerate the Group’s expansion into this 
neighbouring megamarket
   Around 15% of passengers are taking connecting 
flights, a figure expected to rise following the 
opening of the new terminal at Almaty International 
Airport in June 2024, with tripled terminal area, 
increasing annual capacity at the airport from 8 to 14 
million passengers per year. The new terminal 
resolves the capacity bottleneck at the Group’s main 
base and provides additional capacity for further 
growth in the future
   Air Astana implemented many initiatives to enhance 
customer experience in 2024, including an upgraded 
website and developed mobile app which will be 
launched in 2025, revamped frequent flyer 
programme, opened a new dedicated lounge  
in Almaty and an upgraded lounge in Astana, 
enhanced customer feedback opportunities, and 
mobilising non-operational employees to help 
passengers at Almaty during peak travel periods
Opportunities for further growth
Air Astana believes it has seen only the beginning 
of the potential of the region, a view confirmed 
by IATA forecasts and market analysis. Central 
Asia is leading the growth in traffic across Asia, 
with its strong aviation performance partly 
attributed to overflight restrictions due to the war 
in Ukraine. As more routes from Europe to 
Southeast Asia and the Middle East are redirected 
through this subregion, the Central Asian market 
is expected to continue outperforming in the near 
future, given the ongoing geopolitical situation. 
The Kazakh market for both domestic and 
international travel has much scope to grow 
before it catches up with other markets with 
similar demographic and economic parameters. 
The country’s emerging middle class is increasing 
its propensity to fly, and tourists from around the 
world are beginning to discover Kazakhstan as a 
unique and relatively untouched travel 
destination. 
Central Asia generally is becoming more of a 
destination, for business and for leisure, and there 
is huge potential in the Indian market,  
with the increasing interest of Indian tourists  
in Central Asian destinations. Other countries  
and regions seen as strategic for Air Astana’s 
continued overseas growth include China, the 
Gulf, Japan, Korea, Saudi Arabia and Western 
Europe. In addition, many overseas businesses 
and investors in oil, gas and minerals tend to have 
their headquarters in Astana, encouraging 
business travel from, in particular, China, Korea 
and the UAE. Working in this positive market 
environment, Air Astana has a clear path forward 
through its solid strategy encompassing growth, 
efficiency and excellence. 
Load factor (%)
81.8
2023: 80.1
RPK (bn)
11.0
2023: 10.0
ASK (bn)
13.4
2023: 12.5
Operating review
Connecting Kazakhstan  
to the world
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 83   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202482   
fulﬁlling our promises
Having accelerated the growth of air 
travel in Kazakhstan, FlyArystan has 
boosted its own growth by serving  
in-demand destinations at attractive 
prices. And now this trend continues,  
as the airline explores more routes and 
offers passengers a greater range of 
products and services.
Richard Ledger, President of FlyArystan
Load factor (%)
87.3
2023: 89
RPK (bn)
5.2
2023: 4.6
ASK (bn)
5.9
2023: 5.2
Air Astana Group’s low-cost airline, 
FlyArystan, operates independently, 
making the most of the low-cost carrier 
(LCC) operational model used in Asia, 
the US and Europe to offer consistently 
low fares and stimulate demand in 
underserved markets. Flying from  
three of Air Astana Group’s bases in 
Kazakhstan, it provides scheduled and 
charter short-haul and medium-haul air 
travel across the country and further 
into the Caucasus, Central Asia, Turkey  
and the Middle East.
A history of rapid growth
Established in 2019, FlyArystan was one of 
the first LCCs in Central Asia. Since its launch, 
it has grown to become the market leader in 
Kazakhstan, providing 4.2 million passengers 
with low-cost air travel in 2024, and 
expanding the fleet from four in 2019 to 23 
aircraft by the end of 2024. It now flies 59 
routes including domestic and international, 
with a domestic market share of 40%. Much 
of this success is due to maintaining high 
service standards: within three years of 
launch, FlyArystan became one of 13 LCCs 
globally to be certified as a 4-Star Low-Cost 
Airline, with no LCC receiving a 5-Star rating.
Playing a distinctive role
Although still wholly owned by the Air 
Astana JSC, FlyArystan is run as a separate 
organisation from an operational and 
marketing perspective, complementing the 
full-service Air Astana brand. By operating 
two distinct brands, the Group covers more 
routes and serves more destinations than 
any other airline in Kazakhstan, Central 
Asia and the Caucasus.
The Group has managed the growth of these 
two distinct brands in parallel, with limited 
cannibalisation. While Air Astana focuses 
mainly on business and lifestyle travel, 
FlyArystan is positioned as a low-cost market 
disrupter, targeting price-conscious customers. 
Its expanding network is in the domestic 
and near-home markets within a four-to-
five-hour radius of its three bases. FlyArystan 
operates Airbus A320 aircraft, configured to 
support high-density, single-class seating.
Stimulating local demand
FlyArystan has been instrumental in growing 
the Kazakh air-travel market by encouraging 
more people to fly. In a large country, where 
significant distances separate cities, a 
three-hour flight at the right price is highly 
preferable to a 24-hour rail trip – and 
FlyArystan is the leading provider of those 
low-cost flights, making air travel attainable 
for a greater proportion of the Kazakhstan 
population.
Since commencing operations in May 2019, 
the airline has carried 15 million passengers, 
with almost 11 million of those being 
domestic travellers. FlyArystan, established 
as a social initiative to enhance aviation 
mobility for Kazakhstanis, has played a vital 
role in driving domestic passenger growth. 
In 2024 alone, the airline transported 4.2 
million passengers, an increase of 15.5% 
year-on-year, with more than 10% 
experiencing their first-ever flight. As Central 
Asia’s first low-cost carrier, FlyArystan has 
transformed Kazakhstan’s aviation sector  
by making air travel more affordable and 
fostering a new travel culture in the region.
Opportunities for further growth
Operating with one of the lowest CASKs 
(Cost per available seat kilometre) among 
internationally comparable LCCs, FlyArystan 
can expand to cover new routes more 
profitably than its competitors. Also, those 
LCCs have their bases outside the Central 
Asia and Caucasus region, making it more 
difficult to access the markets FlyArystan is 
targeting for network expansion.
In addition, there are new opportunities  
to expand FlyArystan across international 
routes within its optimal stage length of 
four to five hours. With hub airports in 
North, South-East, and West Kazakhstan,  
it can increase its radius to include new 
routes and destinations, making the most 
of growth opportunities in Western and 
Central China, India, Saudi Arabia, and the 
Gulf. FlyArystan has also established 
several strategic initiatives to increase 
ancillary revenues. 
The year’s highlights
   In April 2024, FlyArystan received its own 
AOC from the AAK. Before this, the airline 
had operated under the Air Astana AOC. 
Now, with its own AOC, it can align 
operations more effectively with its LCC 
model and pursue additional growth 
opportunities
   Having its own IATA code, FS, granted in 
April 2024, allows it to expand globally 
and establish strategic partnerships with 
other airlines 
   ICAO Code (AYN) and ICAO Call Sign  
(Arystan) granted in February 2024
   IATA Accounting Prefix Code 164  
granted in July 2024
   As part of the airline’s ongoing  
expansion, it took delivery of five  
new aircraft during the year 
   In May 2024, Richard Ledger was  
appointed as the President of FlyArystan, 
bringing almost 18 years’ management 
experience within the Air Astana Group
   FlyArystan won the Best Low-Cost Carrier 
in Central Asia and CIS award from Skytrax 
for the second time. It also retained its 
Skytrax 4-Star LCC status 
   Service and software upgrades included 
mobile app enhancements to sign-in, 
booking management and check-in, 
Google Pay and China Union Pay 
integration, flight status service  
now offering real-time accuracy,  
kiosk software upgrades and a  
new bag-drop facility at Almaty 
Operating review
An award-winning  
low-cost carrier
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 85   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202484   
fulﬁlling our promises
 
Operating review Strategically planned growth continued
Operating review
Strategically planned growth
Installation of additional fuel 
tank on A321LR 
The Group is widening its network capabilities 
by retrofitting a third fuel tank on its fleet of 
Airbus A321LR, bringing new destinations 
within extended range of narrow-body aircraft. 
An initial four additional fuel tanks have already 
been installed at the Group’s own technical 
facilities, bypassing supply-chain delays at 
Airbus. The Group is ideally positioned to utilise 
the extended range in all directions, with 
possibilities for new routes in Asia, the Middle 
East, Europe and potentially beyond. To date, it 
has already enabled the launch of non-stop 
flights on some of Air Astana’s longest routes, 
including Almaty-London, Almaty-Guangzhou, 
Astana-Phu Quoc and Astana-Phuket flights, as 
well as Almaty-Tokyo from 2026. 
The modification also represents a key part of 
the Group’s long-term strategy to enhance 
operational efficiency. The modification 
incorporates all the necessary technical and 
safety aspects and, by operating non-stop to 
long-haul destinations, significantly improves 
performance and reduces travel time. 
Enhanced strategic 
partnerships 
Air Astana continued to expand its global 
network through enhanced strategic 
partnerships. These enable the airline to 
participate in passenger itineraries it may  
not otherwise have considered through 
codeshare and interline agreements, often 
with national flag carriers. They also allow for 
marketing initiatives, cooperation on loyalty 
programmes, and enhanced service levels  
at airports through aircraft and maintenance. 
By the end of 2024, Air Astana had established 
nine codeshare partnerships with interline 
partners delivering over 150,000 passengers 
(approximately 8% of Air Astana international 
traffic). In August, the airline signed a new 
codeshare agreement with Japan Airlines, 
facilitating seamless connectivity between 
Kazakhstan and Japan on the upcoming 
Almaty-Tokyo route in 2026. In November, Air 
Astana begun codesharing with Etihad Airways, 
the UAE’s national flag carrier, to offer a greater 
choice of destinations across the Gulf.
Air Astana has now also signed an MoU with 
China Southern Airlines, China’s powerhouse 
airline, for a comprehensive set of codeshares 
across China, Kazakhstan and, subject to third 
country bilateral agreement, other countries in 
East Asia, Central Asia and Caucasus. This key 
partnership, once the MoU has been translated 
into a concrete agreement, will accelerate our 
expansion into this neighbouring megamarket. 
The Group is exploring further potential 
Enhanced Strategic Partnerships. 
Fleet development 
The Group maintains a modern, fuel-efficient fleet of Airbus A320 
family aircraft, alongside three Boeing 767 aircraft for longer 
international routes flown by Air Astana. 
The Group continues to expand its fleet to support its growth objectives 
and meet rising demand in its extended home market. The Air Astana 
brand took delivery of five aircraft in 2024, expanding its fleet to 34. 
FlyArystan also took delivery of five aircraft in 2024, expanding its fleet 
to 23, which further increased to 25 in early 2025, exclusively made up 
of the A320 family of aircraft. 
Alongside capacity expansion, the process of simplifying the fleet is 
nearing completion. Following the early retirement of the Boeing 757 
fleet, the last of which departed in early 2021, the Group has been 
phasing out its fleet of Embraer E190. Two Embraer E190-E2 have 
been redelivered in 2024, bringing the total fleet to 57 at the end of 
2024. This is now the simplest fleet profile the Group has ever had in 
its 23 years of existence. 
In July, the Group signed an agreement with Air Lease Corporation for 
the operating lease of seven Airbus A321neo LR aircraft with deliveries 
taking place starting from 2026. The Group now expects to increase the 
total fleet to 84 aircraft by the end of 2029, comprising 54 Air Astana 
and 30 FlyArystan aircraft, extending the previous guidance of 80 by the 
end of 2028.
 
34
Air Astana fleet
23
FlyArystan fleet
In 2024, the Air Astana Group delivered 
on its strategy with significant growth 
and record passenger numbers, while 
carefully managing yield and controlling 
costs, despite of industry-wide 
revenue and cost pressures as well  
as capacity constraints. 
The Group carried nine million passengers 
across both airline brands during the year at 
an improved load factor of 83.5% (2023: 82.8%). 
This is almost one million passengers more 
than in 2023, driven by growing demand for 
air travel across Kazakhstan, our extended 
home market and nearby megamarkets. 
This resulted in a strong financial performance 
with total revenue* for the Group increasing to 
USD 1,308 million (2023: USD 1,164 million) and 
adjusted EBITDAR* grew 16.1% to USD 338.6 
million (2023: USD 291.6 million), ahead of ASK 
growth of 9.2%. 
New routes and network 
expansion 
The Group’s strategic location in the heart  
of Eurasia makes it uniquely positioned  
to benefit from increased air travel in its 
underserved extended-home market, the 
world’s fastest-growing aviation region 
according to IATA, and provides close  
access to Asian megamarkets. 
Both Air Astana and FlyArystan have 
continued to increase capacity and launch 
new international and domestic routes. While 
capacity allocation has always been based  
on supply and demand with a close focus  
on route profitability, this was particularly 
important in 2024 as industry-wide cost 
inflation and supply-chain pressures required 
higher yielding routes to be prioritised. In the 
period, this resulted in increased capacity 
allocated to destinations across Asia at the 
expense of the European market. 
As at 31 December 2024, the Group’s 
passenger network covered 107 routes  
(74 international and 33 domestic),  
45 destinations in 22 countries. 
The Group further expanded its network in 
2024 with 21 new routes and destinations to 
high-demand regions across Asia, including 
India, China, Vietnam and the Gulf. 
The proximity of the two megamarkets of 
China and India represents a significant growth 
opportunity with strong demand requiring 
improved connectivity. Passengers carried to 
China and the Far East rose 33% year-on-year 
and the Group retains many unutilised traffic 
rights in China, allowing future growth as 
ongoing capacity restrictions are lifted. The 
Indian market, which is currently seeing a steep 
rise in outbound tourism, is also a key area of 
expansion with 50% more passengers carried 
by the Group in 2024 compared to the prior year. 
The Group also boosted its presence in the 
Gulf in 2024 by expanding to destinations  
such as Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Jeddah and  
Medina. Passengers carried to the Middle 
East, including the key Gulf states, increased 
28% year-on-year. 
New winter services were added from 
Atyrau-Dubai, Astana-Abu Dhabi and 
Almaty-Abu Dhabi, building on the Group’s 
existing 20 services a week from Almaty and 
Astana to Dubai and six services a week from 
Almaty and Shymkent to Saudi Arabia. This 
expansion reflects the rapid growth in 
business and leisure traffic between Kazakhstan 
and the region, contributing to wider 
economic development in western Kazakhstan 
by enhancing connectivity with important 
business and tourist centres in the Gulf. 
A robust charter programme also supported 
seasonal demand, with services to Antalya, 
Batumi, Bodrum, Colombo, Doha, Male, 
Phuket, Sanya (China) and Sharm El Sheikh.  
In 2025, the Group has already further 
expanded its network across Asia with the 
introduction of eight new routes including 
Guangzhou in China (in addition to Beijing, 
Urumqi and Sanya), Mumbai (in addition to 
Delhi) and seasonal flights to Nha Trang in 
Vietnam (in addition to Phu Quoc).
* Excluding non-recurring items: Net IPO related expenses of 
USD 1.8 million in 2023/USD 12.9 million in 2024. Revenue from 
the extraordinary market event impacted by partial mobilisation 
in Russia of USD 11.0 million in 2023. RASK adjustment of USD 
4.2 million in 2024. Donations of USD 2.7 million in connection 
with the flood situation in Kazakhstan in 2024.  
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 87   
fulﬁlling our promises
86   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
Operating review Strategically planned growth continued
FlyArystan AOC 
Since its launch in 2019, FlyArystan has grown into 
the market leader in Kazakhstan while operating  
its separate brand under the Air Astana AOC. The 
airline has now reached such a size and level of 
operational complexity that it makes strategic 
sense to operate under its own AOC to further  
grow and develop, while remaining a wholly 
owned subsidiary of Air Astana JSC. 
FlyArystan was issued its own AOC on 1 April 2024 
following an extensive audit and examination 
process by the Aviation Administration of 
Kazakhstan, demonstrating the airline’s adherence 
to both domestic aviation legislation and 
international operational standards. This enables 
the brand to align operations more effectively  
with its LCC model and pursue additional growth 
opportunities with its own IATA code (FS). 
New International Terminal at 
Almaty airport 
Located in the largest city in Kazakhstan, Almaty 
airport is the country’s busiest airport and the 
principal operating hub for the Group; however it 
has been held back by operating a single terminal 
for both domestic and international flights. The 
inauguration of a new International Terminal at 
Almaty airport on 31 May 2024 is therefore an 
important development for both the Group and the 
wider aviation industry in Kazakhstan. Air Astana 
operated the first flight to the terminal, carrying 
passengers from London, on 1 June 2024 and by 
mid-June all the Group’s international flights had 
been smoothy transferred. 
The new 54,000m2 terminal has tripled the terminal 
area, increasing annual capacity at the airport from 
8 to 14 million passengers per year. The new 
terminal resolves the capacity bottleneck at the 
Group’s main base and provides additional capacity 
for further growth in the future. It also frees up 
space at the existing terminal, which can now be 
exclusively dedicated to meet the high growth in 
domestic demand. 
Successfully mitigating Pratt & Whitney 
engine issues
The industry continues to be adversely impacted by supply-chain 
challenges arising from Original Equipment Manufacturer’s (OEM), 
including Pratt & Whitney, and the impact of the contaminated 
powdered metal problems of PW1100G engines. The Group 
recognised the issue early and took proactive action ahead of the 
wider industry, successfully ensuring high fleet utilisation during peak 
season and reducing the impact on overall performance. 
Actions taken under the Group’s Mitigation Plan 
 ► Proactively rested engines during the low season to ensure 
high deployment during peak season 
 ► Performed 93 PW1100G in-house engine replacements in 2024 
 ► Secured 13 spare engines 
 ► Took delivery of a further four A320ceo family aircraft  
(with an additional A320ceo delivered in Q1 2025) 
These actions successfully mitigated the disruption caused by fleet 
groundings, which has presented challenges across the industry in 
increasing capacity to meet rising demand. As a result, the Group 
was able to operate at near full capacity during peak season when 
returns are highest. The Group also leveraged the flexibility of its 
dual brand model, whereby Air Astana and FlyArystan are 
independently managed, to compete internally for margins and 
allocate capacity to the most profitable routes. This ensured that 
RASK growth offset the rise in CASK, protecting yields and improving 
profitability ahead of capacity growth. 
In March 2024, the Group reached an agreement with Pratt & Whitney 
for compensation and other support in recognition of the impact to 
the Group’s operations arising from GTF neo engine availability issues. 
The engine-off wing time assumption for this issue remains 18 months. 
Although the Group is now being delivered completely fault-free 
engines by Pratt & Whitney, the issue is expected to persist and 
require proactive mitigating actions for the foreseeable future.
Operating review
Improving efficiency across  
all our operations 
The Group is one of the most efficient 
airline groups globally with respective 
EBITDAR margins of 28% and 25% for 
FlyArystan and Air Astana placing the 
airlines consistently among the highest 
in the industry. This is underpinned by 
the Group’s young, modern and 
fuel-efficient fleet and investment  
in its own facilities and training. 
Management is constantly reviewing 
initiatives and new technologies to deliver 
additional operational and cost efficiencies, 
including a strategic plan to bring the Group’s 
operations in-house, resulting in more 
efficient and higher quality operations, while 
also turning traditional costs into profit 
centres by servicing other airlines. 
Advanced Technical Centre 
In 2024, the Group continued to invest in its 
Advanced Technical Centre (ATC), an in-house 
facility for maintaining aircraft to the highest 
industry standards. The Group performed 
seven C-checks in 2024 and expanded its 
capability to the most comprehensive 12 Year 
C-checks on the Airbus fleet, the first ever to 
be conducted in Kazakhstan. The ATC 
delivered significant operating efficiencies for 
the Group in 2024 and is expected to deliver 
increased savings going forward. In addition, 
the Engineering and Maintenance unit 
provided line maintenance to 58 domestic 
and international airlines. 
New hangars in Almaty and 
Astana 
Plans are currently being developed for the 
construction of new hangars in Almaty and 
Astana, expanding maintenance capacity 
across the Group’s main two hubs, further 
reducing costs and introducing the 
opportunity to provide scarce and high-value 
heavy maintenance to external customers. 
The construction of the expanded facilities is 
expected to commence in 2025-26.
De-icing infrastructure 
The Group increased its de-icing capability 
with the construction of its de-icing 
warehouse at Astana airport. This completed 
in December 2024 and is an important 
milestone given the challenging winter 
climate in the Group’s home market. In 
Almaty, the de-icing fluid mixing station was 
upgraded with increased storage capacity and 
reduced refilling speed by 50%. In 2024, four 
new de-icing trucks were delivered to Almaty 
and Astana, increasing the total number 
operated by the Group to 14. The expansion of 
de-icing facilities contributes to improved 
operational capabilities and efficiency. 
Ground Services subsidiary 
The Group is in the process of establishing a 
fully owned Ground Services subsidiary, Air 
Astana Terminal Services, to ensure a 
high-quality customer service and also 
manage one of its key costs. 
At the same time, this move will enable the 
Group to ensure a high-quality customer 
service while expanding operations and 
potentially creating growth opportunities 
providing services to other airlines at its 
principal hubs at Almaty and Astana. 
Fuel optimisation and savings
In line with its strategy to reduce costs and 
optimise operations, the Group partnered 
with StorkJet to introduce its Aircraft 
Performance Monitoring software across its 
fleet. The software uses airborne flight data 
and artificial intelligence to improve fuel 
planning, optimise descent and diagnose 
airframe or engine-related problem. It is 
expected to reduce fuel burn by 1% and 
lower CO2 emissions. In addition, the Group 
re-implemented a Fuel Tankering programme 
in April 2024 to minimise fuel costs and 
further improve efficiency on its modern 
fleet of aircraft. This achieved significant fuel 
savings during the year. 
Training and recruitment 
As part of its commitment to high standards 
of pilot training and performance, the Group is 
extending its Flight Training Centre (FTC) in 
Astana. The Group’s A320 Full-Flight Simulator 
– one of the first in Central Asia – is currently at 
full utilisation. The second Full Flight Simulator 
was delivered in February 2025 and is on track 
to be commissioned by the end of this year 
increasing capacity, extending operational 
efficiency and potentially generating revenue 
from external pilot training. 
In line with the Group’s strategy of fleet 
simplification, all Embraer pilots have now 
been converted to Airbus in preparation for 
the final phase-out of the Embraer fleet. The 
Group is in the final stages of becoming the 
first airline in Central Asia and CIS to be 
awarded a Multi-Pilot-Licence (MPL), which 
will further contribute to the efficiency of 
pilots across the Group. Furthermore, the 
implementation of Jeppesen Pairing 
Optimiser is currently in progress and 
expected to go live in April 2025, which could 
bring potential savings of 5-7%. All these 
actions will contribute to improving the 
efficiency of pilot utilisation. 
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202488   89   
We continue to train our own people, pilots, 
crew and engineers. Since the ab-initio pilot 
cadet programme started in 2008 we have a 
record high – 30 cadets currently in training. 
About half of the pilot force are graduates of 
the ab-initio programme and 80 have been 
promoted to captains. The new cabin 
emergency evacuation training system and 
real firefighting trainer simulators were also 
commissioned during the year. 
In addition to pilot training, the Group 
implemented training programmes for cabin 
crew, including a CEET and RFFT required for 
mandatory ongoing training. The Group 
further strengthened its flight crew induction 
training and cabin crew training with additional 
training on pre-flight security checks. This 
reduces the number of crews required.
The Group’s training programmes and 
pathways for career progression makes it  
at an attractive workplace for prospective 
employees. The Group has established 
partnerships to develop talent and attract 
high-skilled employees from universities  
and colleges including the Academy of Civil 
Aviation, KIMEP University, De Montfort 
University Kazakhstan, University of 
International Business, L. N. Gumilev Eurasian 
National University, Caspian University and 
NARXOZ University. In addition, the Group 
participates at university exhibitions and 
forums, and Tech Orda online webinars. 
Digital platforms are also used for 
recruitment, hosting online resources and 
career portals on its website and using social 
media to reach a broader number of 
candidates with active job postings on 
LinkedIn. The Group’s recruitment team  
is also increasingly deploying artificial 
intelligence to tailor job descriptions to 
attract the best and most suitable talent. 
Operating review
Ensuring excellence for our 
passengers 
The Group is dedicated to maintaining 
the highest standards and providing 
the best experience for its customers 
on every Air Astana and FlyArystan 
flight. This continuous improvement is 
reflected in the upgrades made 
throughout 2024 and has been once 
again recognised by experts at the 
industry’s most prestigious awards 
ceremonies. 
In 2024, the Group implemented multiple 
strategic initiatives to enhance customer 
experience, focusing on service quality, 
operational efficiency, and innovation. 
New lounge openings 
In November 2024, Air Astana opened its 
dedicated The Shanyraq business lounge in the 
new terminal at Almaty International Airport. 
This offers a world-class service to the airline’s 
business class and frequent flying customers. 
It follows the revamping of The Shanyraq 
business lounge at Astana Airport which 
resumed welcoming customers in July. 
Customer experience 
The experience provided to the Group’s 
customers is regularly reviewed, driven by 
the CXG (Customer Experience Group) chaired 
by the CEO. This is informed by feedback 
from customers which was expanded in 2024 
to include an onboard survey (expanded 
from three to nine languages) and post-flight 
survey automation (linked to the Passenger 
Name Record and travel history). In addition, 
the Group conducted benchmarking research 
in key markets to ensure its service offerings 
are aligned with international standards 
while maintaining the unique Kazakh identity 
that make Air Astana and FlyArystan special. 
The most notable improvement in 2024 was 
the launch of the upgraded website, 
providing a more intuitive experience for 
customers across booking, check-in and ticket 
management. This will be followed by the 
launch of the new app in the first half of 
2025. The Nomad Club frequent flyer 
programme was revamped with a spend-
based accrual and integrated with the new 
website to offer a seamless experience. 
The introduction of iJan self-service kiosks 
has been transformational in making the 
check-in process quicker and more efficient 
for FlyArystan passengers. The kiosks, which 
were originally introduced in 2022 as the first 
in Central Asia, allow passengers to scan 
their documents, check-in, choose a seat, 
weigh their baggage and receive a baggage 
tag. In 2024, these terminals were rolled out 
to all airports in Kazakhstan with a total of 62 
kiosks now in place. Building on this 
technology, automated baggage self-check-in 
facilities (BagJan) were also launched ahead 
of the 2024 summer season. These facilities 
allow passengers to bypass queues by 
dropping off their own baggage and 
independently completing pre-flight 
procedures, making the process even faster 
and more convenient. 
Despite investing in automation, 
management are aware of the vital role 
played by operational staff supporting 
passengers on the ground. Just as the Group 
dynamically managed its fleet to allocate 
capacity when demand was at its peak, 
resources were also committed to increase 
customer support during the busy summer 
period. 65 non-operational employees were 
mobilised to assist passengers at Almaty 
International Airport during the summer, 
ensuring smoother customer journeys during 
a busy period for both airline brands. 
Award-winning service 
The Group’s focus on continuous 
improvement was recognised by 
international industry awards in 2024. Air 
Astana was named the Best Airline in Central 
Asia & CIS for the thirteenth year running by 
Skytrax and received the Best Airline Staff 
Service in Central Asia & CIS award for the 
eighth time. Air Astana also received the 
APEX award for Best Overall Airline award in 
Central Asia, following its recognition with an 
APEX Five Star award in the ‘Major Airlines’ 
category earlier in 2024. 
FlyArystan won the Skytrax Best Low-Cost 
Carrier in Central Asia & CIS award for the 
second time and completed a Skytrax Audit 
in November 2024, retaining its four-star LCC 
status. Furthermore, Air Astana Group is now 
a certified ACCA Approved Employer at 
Platinum level.
In June, the Group was awarded the ‘Most 
Innovative Education/Training Programme’  
by the American Chamber of Commerce in 
Kazakhstan. This recognised the Group’s 
ab-initio pilot training programme, aviation 
mechanics training programme and the 
opening of the crew training centre in 
Astana, equipped with modern simulators for 
practising emergency rescue procedures. The 
award reflects the Group’s commitment to 
the principles of ESG, including the provision 
of quality education, gender equality and the 
creation of decent working conditions.
On behalf of all colleagues across the Group, 
CEO Peter Foster accepted The Airline 
Business award at the Airline Strategy 
Awards 2024, providing special recognition 
for his longstanding contribution to the 
aviation industry and strong leadership over 
an extended period. The Group’s CFO Ibrahim 
Canliel was also awarded ‘The Best CFO’ at 
the CFO Summit Kazakhstan 2024.
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202490   91   
fulﬁlling our promises
The Group delivered a strong set of results in 2024, with revenue 
and EBITDAR growth in line with our guidance. This was a result 
of proactive actions taken early in the year to manage industry-
wide cost and revenue pressures as well as capacity constraints. 
On the back of 9.2% ASK growth, total revenue and other income* 
increased 12.4% to USD 1,308 million (2023: USD 1,164 million), 
underpinned by a 10.0% increase in passenger revenue* to USD 1,246 
million. Adjusted EBITDAR* grew 16.1% to USD 338.6 million (2023: USD 
291.6 million). The Group’s adjusted EBITDAR margin* remains one of 
the highest in the industry at 25.9%, an improvement of 0.8 pp on 2023. 
Operating profit* rose by 14.9% to USD 145.7 million (2023: USD 126.8 
million), with net profit* up 6.0% to USD 65.2 million (2023: USD 61.5 
million in 2023). 
Revenue 
The Group’s successful execution of its fleet expansion strategy 
resulted in a 9.2% increase in Group ASK during 2024 to 19.3 billion, 
with domestic ASK growing by 12.9% and international by 6.4%.
The Group’s dual-brand model provides flexibility in allocating 
resources to higher RASK routes. This, combined with its unique 
geographical location, allowed the Group to continue to balance 
passenger growth with a relentless focus on operational cost 
efficiency, growing largely in higher margin international routes such 
as the nearby megamarkets in Asia and the Gulf. 
Group RASK* improved progressively throughout the year, growing by 
6.6% in Q4 2024 and by 2.6% across 2024, driven by proactive capacity 
management across both airline brands. RPK increased 10.1% to 16.1 
billion (FY 2023: 14.6 billion).
Dynamically allocating capacity  
to higher margin routes
RPK (bn)
Costs
The Group is constantly reviewing initiatives and new technologies to 
deliver operational cost efficiencies, support margin growth and keep 
unit costs at a very competitive industry level.
Total operating costs* increased by 12.1% in 2024 to USD 1,163 million 
(2023: USD 1,037 million) or 2.7% per ASK. This was driven by 
industry-wide cost inflation, higher airport rates, the Group’s continued 
investment into customer experience, operating staff remuneration 
and higher aircraft depreciation expenses from the fleet expansion,  
as well as planned lower utilisation during the off-peaks to maximise 
the margin during the peak. This was partially offset by the lower 
than ASK growth of engineering and maintenance costs.
Cost drivers 
CASK (UScents)
However, the Group’s highly effective cost management programme 
ensured only a moderate increase in full-year CASK* of 2.7%, which 
was broadly offset by the growth in RASK by 2.6%. The RASK-CASK 
index differential improved progressively over the quarters from 
negative 1.9 percentage points in Q1 2024 to positive 4.0 percentage 
points in Q4, resulting in a broadly neutral RASK-CASK differential for 
the year, ahead of guidance. 
RASK-CASK growth differential 
Percentage points
 
Following the re-implementation of the Fuel Tankering programme 
earlier in 2024, the Company achieved additional savings of USD 4 million. 
Approximately 30% of the Group’s fuel is sourced internationally, which 
the Company hedges using call options. In addition, a Fuel Savings 
Programme will be implemented during the first half of 2025 to 
reduce fuel burn and emission levels.
Financial review
A year of delivery despite 
industry headwinds 
1 Includes Germany, Greece, Montenegro, Netherlands and UK. 
2 Includes Maldives and Sri Lanka.
3 Includes Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and U zbekistan. 
4 Includes Egypt, Israel, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and UAE. 
5 Includes Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. 
2023 Fuel Handling, 
landing 
fees, 
navigation, 
passenger 
service
D&A E&M Employee 
and crew 
costs
Other 2024
5.86 0.001 0.068 0.063 -0.002 0.031 -0.006 6.02
In 2024, we delivered on our guidance set out at IPO  
with a year of strong growth. This was achieved despite 
industry-wide cost inflation, revenue pressures and  
OEM restrictions. Our dual-brand model and unique 
geographical location allowed us to dynamically 
reallocate capacity to higher margin routes, driving  
up adjusted EBITDAR* by 16.1%, well ahead of ASK  
growth of 9.2%.  
Our focus on profitability ensured a progressive 
improvement in the RASK-CASK index differential 
throughout the year, turning positive in Q4. This 
successfully resulted in unit revenue growth almost  
fully offsetting unit cost inflation for the year.  
Our balance sheet remains strong with an improved 
cash-to-sales ratio and low leverage. This gives us the 
confidence to propose ordinary dividends ahead of 
schedule, alongside a special dividend and an  
enhanced dividend policy for the future. 
The opportunity ahead of us is compelling.  
We are confident of delivering growth in  
2025 in line with our medium-term guidance.
Ibrahim Canliel
CFO of Air Astana JSC
 
2023 Europe1 Central 
Asia and 
Caucasus2
Turkey South 
Korea
India 
Region3
Middle 
East4
China  
and  
Far East5
Domestic 2024
14.6 -14% -9% -3% +8% +50% +28% +33%
+12%
 
+10%
16.1 
-1.9 -1.1 -1.0
+4.0
Q1 2024 Q2 2024 Q3 2024 Q4 2024
Financial review continued 
*  Excluding non-recurring items: Net IPO related expenses of USD 1.8 mill ion in 2023/USD 12.9 
million in 2024. Revenue from the extraordinary mar ket event impacted by partial mobilisation 
in Russia of USD 11.0 million in 2023. RASK adjustment of USD 4.2 million in 2024 . Donations 
of USD 2.7 million in connection with the flood situation in Kazakhstan in 20 24.
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 93   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202492   
fulﬁlling our promises
Fuel hedging and currency 
In line with the Group’s policy to hedge fuel 
price risk, it hedged all volumes in 2024 using 
call options enabling the Group to hedge the 
upside risk without an associated downside 
risk. At the time of writing the report, the 
Group is fully hedged against the anticipated 
increase in international fuel prices for the 
first three quarters of 2025 with options 
between USD 75 and 85 per barrel.
Balance sheet and leverage ratio 
The Group maintains a robust balance sheet 
and liquidity position. As at 31 December 
2024, the Group’s cash position was USD 
488.7 million, an increase of 78.4% or USD 
214.7 million on the prior year (2023: USD 
274.0 million), with a cash-to-sales ratio of 
37.3% (2023: 23.3%) before available 
facilities. This includes the USD 120 million 
proceeds from the IPO. 
Group Net Debt/Adjusted EBITDAR reduced 
from 1.5x in 2023 to 1.2x in 2024, driven by 
organic cash generation and IPO proceeds.
During 2024 early full repayments were 
made for five Airbus aircraft under finance 
lease. Two of these repayments were made 
at the end of the third quarter and the 
remaining three were repaid in Q4 2024.
Dividends 
The Board of Directors has proposed to the 
Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 
(AGM) an ordinary dividend of KZT 17.7 per 
one common share (KZT 70.9 per GDR – of 
four shares), a total dividend of KZT 6.3 
billion, earlier than the medium-term 
guidance set out at IPO. 
Additionally, in light of the Group’s robust 
financial results for 2024 and strong balance 
sheet, the Board of Directors has 
recommended a special dividend of KZT 36.0 
per one common share (KZT 143.9 per GDR), 
a total dividend of KZT 12.8 billion.
The total proposed dividend (ordinary and 
special dividend) amounts to KZT 53.7 per 
one common share and KZT 214.8 per GDR. 
This is subject to AGM approval on 29 May 
2025 and payable in mid-2025. 
The Board of Directors has approved the new 
enhanced dividend policy stipulating a 
dividend of 30 to 50% of annual net income2, 
ahead of previous guidance of up to 20%.
Buyback programme 
On 30 April 2024, the Company commenced 
a buyback programme to purchase ordinary 
shares and global depositary receipts in order 
to meet the Company’s obligations arising 
from its employee incentive programmes.
In the first part of the programme, which 
concluded on 31 December 2024, the 
Company purchased in total 4,638,555 shares 
(3,263,423 shares and 343,783 GDRs 
(representing 1,375,132 shares)) for a total 
consideration of USD 8.2 million. First vesting 
of shares and GDRs to employees took place 
on 17 February 2025.
On 13 March 2025, the Board approved the next 
phase of the employee incentive programme 
for a total amount of up to USD 5 million.
Maintaining medium-term 
guidance
The Group expects to deliver growth in 2025, 
in line with its medium-term guidance. This 
is underpinned by continued passenger 
growth on existing routes in nearby 
megamarkets including China, India,  
the Gulf and Saudi Arabia. Furthermore, the 
Group remains ideally positioned to benefit 
from increased air travel in its underserved 
extended-home market, the world’s fastest-
growing aviation region according to IATA.     
Management will continue to proactively 
manage the Group’s yield and operate a 
low-cost base, as successfully executed in 
2024, to maintain balance between RASK and 
CASK growth. Capacity will continue to be 
realigned to ensure highest margin delivery 
and to mitigate inflationary cost pressures, 
while retaining a load factor broadly 
consistent with 2024.
Despite the ongoing OEM and supply-chain 
challenges, the Group expects to expand the 
total fleet to 63 aircraft by the end of 2025 
and extends guidance to 84 aircraft by the 
end of 2029. 
As a result, the Group remains on track to 
meet its medium-term expectation of 
mid-to-high 20s EBITDAR margin with 
liquidity ratio above 25% and leverage below 
3.0x Net Debt/EBITDAR.
 
Ibrahim Canliel 
CFO of Air Astana JSC
Air Astana and FlyArystan are among the lowest cost and highest margin airlines in the industry
Cost per ASK1 in 2024
US$ cents
EBITDAR margin1 in 2024
%
Japan 
Airlines
Lufthansa Air France 
KLM Group
British 
Airways
EasyJet IAG Emirates Turkish 
Airlines
Singapore 
Airlines
Air Astana Aer Lingus IndiGo Wizz RyanAir FlyArystan
12.91 12.09 10.34 9.61 9.08 9.03  8.35 8.28 7.65   6.94* 6.78 5.75 5.45 5.09   5.03*
Emirates FlyArystan Air Astana IndiGo RyanAir EasyJet IAG Turkish 
Airlines
Singapore 
Airlines
Wizz Aer Lingus Japan 
Airlines
British 
Airways
Air France 
KLM Group
Lufthansa 
31%   28%*   25%* 23% 23% 23% 21% 21% 21% 19% 18% 18% 16% 13%
10%
Source: The Airline Analyst by Airfinance Journal, official website o f the company. Air Astana and FlyArystan are shown on a standalone basis, exc luding intergroup lease revenue and EME,  
IPO expenses, donation (Data for January 2024 – December 2024). Air Franc e, Finnair, IAG, Lufthansa, Turkish Airlines updated for January 2024 – S eptember 2024. Emirates, Ryanair updated  
for April 2023 – March 2024. EasyJet, Indigo, Japan Airlines, KLM, Singap ore Airlines, Wizz air updated for April 2024 – September 2024. Aer Lingus (d ata for January – December 2023), British 
Airways (data for January – June 2024). 
1 Excluding Non-Recurring Items. 
2 Subject to all conditions described in the dividend policy.
Financial review continued Financial review continued 
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202494   95   
Governance
Introduction to Corporate Governance  98
Corporate governance framework 100
Board leadership and Company purpose  101
Strategic Planning Committee report 108
ESG Committee report 109
Division of responsibilities  110
Board of Directors  112
Senior management team  114
Composition, succession and evaluation  116
Nomination and Remuneration Committee report 118
Remuneration report 120 
Treasury Committee report 123
Audit Committee report 124
Responsibility statement 127
97   96   
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
fulﬁlling our promises
I believe the Group’s ability to achieve 
long-term success depends on an 
absolute adherence to international 
best practice for governance, and I see 
this as my major remit as Chairman of 
the Board. This adherence is 
underpinned by establishing a culture 
throughout the business based on a 
strong set of corporate values, and a 
business strategy that aims for growth 
by continually improving our efficiency 
and excellence at all levels. To support 
these aspirations, we have our own 
corporate governance code, developed 
in accordance with the UK Corporate 
Governance Code, Astana International 
Financial Centre Market Rules and the 
Air Astana JSC Charter. 
As provided for in our Prospectus, published 
prior to the IPO in February 2024, the Non-
Executive Director representative of shareholder 
BAE Systems, Myles Westcott, stepped down 
from the Board of Directors on 30 May 2024, 
to be replaced effective from 31 May 2024, by 
Diyas Assanov, an Independent Non-Executive 
Director. This brought the Board in line with the 
provisions of the UK Corporate Governance 
Code, which recommends that at least half the 
Board members should be Independent 
Non-Executive Directors. The Board now has 
five Independent and four Non-independent 
Directors. In overseeing the Company, this 
Board is backed by an outstanding senior 
management team that holds an average of 16 
years’ tenure with the Group in addition to 
longstanding and solid experience in our sector. 
In February 2024, Air Astana Group became the first 
company, both domestically and internationally, to 
achieve a simultaneous listing on three stock exchanges 
- the London Stock Exchange, Kazakhstan Stock 
Exchange and Astana International Exchange. Naturally, 
this will enhance the profile of the business and increase 
the international attention it receives, whether from 
investors, analysts or media. Therefore our focus on 
integrity and compliance throughout every aspect of 
our corporate governance remains a major priority.
Nurlan Zhakupov
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Air Astana’s Corporate Governance Code was 
developed in accordance with Kazakhstan 
law, the rules of the Astana International 
Financial Centre Market and the Company’s 
own Charter. It is also aligns with best 
international practice, including the principles 
of the OECD and elements of the 2018 UK 
Corporate Governance Code. 
It was approved by the Company’s shareholders 
in February 2024. The Company is required to 
comply with the Code – or, where the provisions 
of the Code have not been complied with, to 
provide appropriate explanations. 
Throughout 2024, the Company applied all the 
principles set out in the Code and has complied 
with almost all of its provisions, where these 
have not been complied with, you can find 
appropriate explanations in this report. 
The AIX corporate governance 
principles
AIX has Corporate Governance Principles and 
Corporate Governance Best Practice Standards 
in place for listed companies. Air Astana’s 
Corporate Governance Code is largely consistent 
with these principles and standards. 
Throughout 2024, the Group was in full 
compliance with the Corporate Governance 
Principles, whereas some of standards were 
not adopted by the Group. You can find 
explanations as to why certain standards 
were not adopted in this report.
Introduction to corporate governance continued
Statement of compliance with relevant 
corporate governance codes
Introduction to corporate governance
Strong governance is the  
highest priority
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 99   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 202498   
STR ATEGIC  
PL ANNING  
COMMITTEE
The role of the Board
The principles of the Air Astana Corporate 
Governance Code form the basis on which the 
Company operates – as a safe, sustainable and 
successful business, to generate long-term 
value for its shareholders. Responsibility for 
upholding these principles, allied with a 
watching brief over all risks and internal 
controls, lies with the Board of Directors. 
Day-to-day management of the business is 
delegated to the CEO, whose activity is 
supported by the Executive team.
The Company’s Board of Directors is guided by 
the Company’s Charter, Corporate Governance 
Code and follows an annual activity plan and 
meeting schedule. The Board of Directors can 
also review matters beyond its activity plan, if 
necessary. 
Conflicts of interest
Air Astana’s Code of Conduct urges employees 
to report any conflict of interest according to 
procedures established by internal documents. 
All potential or actual conflicts of interest are 
carefully analysed and measures are developed 
to minimise the risks arising from them. A 
policy for preventing and resolving conflicts of 
interest is also in place. The document outlines 
the types and causes of conflicts of interest, 
and prevention procedures, as well as 
regulating conflict settlement actions of the 
Company’s bodies.
There are no potential conflicts of interest 
between the duties of any Director or senior 
management and the Company in their private 
interests or other duties, except for those set 
out below. Neither are there any arrangements 
or understandings with the shareholders, 
customers, suppliers or others that influence 
the selection of any Director or senior 
management. 
Each of the members of the Board of Directors 
has a statutory duty to perform his or her 
duties in good faith, act in the best interests of 
the Company and shareholders, and maintain 
confidentiality of all information on the 
Company’s activities, including for three years 
from ceasing to be a member. Members are 
also required to monitor and, to the extent 
possible, eliminate potential conflicts of interest, 
including for the unlawful use of the Company’s 
assets and their misuse in transactions with 
related parties.
In this connection, the members of the Board 
of Directors are obliged to disclose information 
on persons they are affiliated with. Under the 
JSC Law, transactions with related parties 
require the approval of the Board or 
shareholders where the relevant member, if 
related or affiliated to the related counterpart to 
the transaction, would be prevented from 
voting in such decision-making process. 
There are no family relationships between any 
of the Directors or Senior Managers.
Our purpose, values and culture
For over 20 years, Air Astana has been key to 
opening up Kazakhstan to the world and vice 
versa, through its flight connections with its 
major neighbours in Europe. Launching 
FlyArystan in 2019 to promote flights across 
the world’s largest landlocked country has 
not only increased mobility by significantly 
reducing travelling times, but created closer 
links between communities. 
This has, in turn, bolstered economic growth 
by enabling new employment opportunities 
through emerging small businesses, and 
infrastructure development through the 
opening and expansion of local airports. With 
a strong position in Kazakhstan’s domestic 
market and in the neighbouring Central Asia 
and Caucasus regions, the Group is now 
looking to expand international flights within 
megamarkets.
We believe our focus on excellence will be 
the major influence in positioning ourselves 
as one of the finest airline groups in the 
world. It is one of the pillars on which we 
have also built our status as a major 
economic and social enabler within 
Kazakhstan. This is also true for our 
employees, for whom we have created a 
positive work environment through our 
corporate values and a culture of recognition. 
Our business ethos is embedded throughout, 
with our commitment to our HEART and 
CHARM values, which rewards and provides 
equal opportunities at every level. Leading by 
example, our senior management promote 
our strategy, values and beliefs across the 
business to ensure our employees are fully 
engaged with, and positive about, the 
Group’s vision for the future.
The Group believes good governance 
facilitates responsible, accountable 
and efficient management that can 
achieve stakeholder value over the 
long term. Our corporate governance 
framework is based on the principles 
of integrity, fairness, equality, 
transparency, accountability and 
commitment to values. 
We have developed a corporate governance 
framework that ensures effective board 
governance procedures, strong internal 
control systems, accountability and 
transparency. We have implemented 
various codes and policies to ensure best 
corporate governance practices at all levels. 
By upholding these practices, we aim to 
create an efficient and sustainable 
environment that benefits its stakeholders 
in the long run. Through ongoing 
refinement of its governance practices,  
the Group strives to ensure its continued 
growth and financial stability.
The roles and competencies of the Group’s 
management and executive bodies are 
clearly set out in the Charter, Corporate 
Governance Code and internal documents  
of the Company available at ir.airastana.com
Corporate Governance report
Corporate Governance Framework
Corporate Governance report
Board leadership and  
Company purpose
OUR CULTURE
Our corporate culture reflects our core values and ambitions, as well as ou r commitment to all  
our stakeholders. Excellence lies at the centre of all we do and, by embeddin g it into our culture, 
we build an engaged and satisfied workforce that is fully invested in our cor e values.
OUR PURPOSE
Connecting Kazakhstan  
and the rest of Eurasia  
with true Kazakh  
hospitality
OUR STRATEGY OUR VALUES
Air Astana’s HEART values:
Hospitable, Efficient, Active, 
Reliable, Trustworthy
FlyArystan’s CHARM values:
Creative, Happy, Agile,  
Reliable, Modern
Growth
Efficiency Excellence
* In January 2025, to optimise the activities of the Board of Directors, we reviewed the structure of th e Committees 
and disbanded the Treasury Committee, with the tran sfer of its functions to the Audit Committee.
GENER AL 
SHAREHOLDERS’ 
MEETING
BOARD OF  
DIRECTORS
CEO
AUDIT  
COMMITTEE
NOMINATION AND 
REMUNER ATION 
COMMITTEE
TRE A SURY  
COMMITTEE*
ESG  
COMMITTEE
INTERNAL  
AUDIT  
SERVICE
COMPLIANCE  
SERVICE
CORPOR ATE  
SECRETARY
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 101   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024100   
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Board leadership and Company purpose continued 
DIVISIONAL HEADS 
OF BUSINESS AREAS 
To fully understand their perceptions, we ask 
their opinions and gauge their responses 
through a number of different channels, 
including employee engagement and pulse 
surveys, measures of health, safety and 
wellbeing, and diversity indicators. Air Astana 
was, for example, the first business in 
Kazakhstan to introduce an internal pension 
programme, which was well received, as 
well as introduction of long-term incentive 
programmes and these are the factors in 
retaining talents. The Board plays an 
important role in monitoring the results of 
engagement surveys and regular compliance 
reviews as part of its remit.
How the Board considers 
stakeholders’ interests
The direction, management, performance and 
sustainability of the business all contribute to 
the Group realising its long-term success. The 
responsibility for overseeing and setting the 
Group’s strategy and objectives falls within the 
remit of the Board. It also needs to understand 
and take account of the interests of its 
stakeholders in all Boardroom decision-
making to factor in the potential impacts on 
each group.
Relations with shareholders
Achieving our financial obligations to our 
shareholders is key to fostering good 
relationships with them. Major shareholder 
representatives sit on the Board of Directors 
and are kept up to date with the Company’s 
affairs in order to make a meaningful 
contribution to all strategic decision-making. 
The Chair of the Board of Directors has effective 
channels in place to ensure that any shareholder 
concerns or issues are properly addressed. 
Share ownership
The Air Astana Group floated on three stock 
exchanges in February 2024. Achieving this 
also required the restructuring of the overall 
share ownership.
As of early 2024, Air Astana Group was 51% 
owned by the National Welfare Fund 
Samruk-Kazyna JSC, which was established to 
improve the competitiveness and stability of 
the national economy and to mitigate 
external risks to domestic economic growth.
BAE Systems plc is a British organisation 
involved in the development, delivery and 
support of advanced defence, security and 
aerospace systems on land, at sea, in the air 
and in space. Its subsidiary, BAE Systems 
(Kazakhstan) Limited, owned 49% of Air 
Astana. 
To facilitate the IPO offering in early 2024, the 
National Welfare Fund Samruk-Kazyna JSC 
and BAE Systems (Kazakhstan) Limited 
decreased their shares from 51% and 49% to 
41% and 17%, respectively, with the 
remaining shares available for trading on the 
open market.
Major shareholders: 
As at 31 December 2024, the Company had 
been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure 
and Transparency Rules of the Financial 
Conduct Authority of the following interests of 
3% or more in its total voting rights: Samruk-
Kazyna National Welfare Fund JSC owns 41% 
of the shares, BAE Systems (Kazakhstan) 
Limited owns 16,95% of the shares of Air 
Astana, Unified Accumulative Pension Fund JSC 
owns 6.5% of the shares and other 
shareholders own 35,55% of the shares.
Current and future regulatory filings by 
shareholders will be available on the Group’s 
website at ir.airastana.com 
Dialogue with shareholders 
The Company engages with shareholders  
to engender dialogue and feedback. The 
Independent Directors on the Board are 
asked to ensure all stakeholder interests  
are taken into account in decision-making, 
having ascertained any concerns or queries 
independent of the shareholders and 
Executive team.
Constructive use of the General Meeting 
of Shareholders
The General Meeting of Shareholders is the 
highest governing body of the Company, and 
has the authority to make decisions on major 
issues concerning the Company’s activities. 
Its functions and activities are defined by the 
legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan, the 
provisions of the Charter and internal 
documents. 
The General Meeting of Shareholders can be 
convened by the Board of Directors, which 
forms the agenda for consideration by the 
General Meeting of Shareholders, subject  
to approval by the General Meeting of 
Shareholders. If the General Meeting of 
Shareholders is convened upon request of  
a Major Shareholder, the Board of Directors 
cannot of its own initiative introduce any 
changes to the agenda or propose a 
procedure for the conduct of an Extraordinary 
General Meeting of Shareholders. However, 
the Board of Directors may propose inclusion 
of additional items onto the agenda at its 
own discretion, subject to further approval  
of the General Meeting of Shareholders. 
The Annual General Meeting of Shareholders 
is held once a year, within five months of the 
end of the financial year, and considers the 
annual financial statements of the Company, 
the audit report on the annual financial 
statements, proposals from the Board of 
Directors concerning the procedure for 
distribution of the consolidated net income of 
the Company for the past financial year, and  
the amount of the annual and/or special 
dividend per one common Share, the 
information on complaints of Shareholders 
about acts of the Company and its officials, 
and the results of handling them; and other 
documents at the discretion of the initiator of 
the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders.
In 2024, Air Astana held five General 
Meetings of Shareholders, which addressed 
the following matters:
1.
  On 26 January 2024, by the resolution of 
the Extraordinary General Meeting of 
Shareholders, the terms of the payment 
of remuneration (annual bonus) to the 
President of the Company for 2024, and 
the maximum amount of remuneration 
(annual bonus) payable to the President 
of the Company were approved. 
2.
  On 08 February 2024, the Extraordinary 
General Meeting of Shareholders 
approved the restated Charter of the 
Company and the restated Corporate 
Governance Code of the Company; 
decided on the terms of the issue of 
derivative securities of the Company 
(global depositary receipts, the underlying 
asset of which are stocks (shares) of the 
Company); approved the procedure, 
deadlines and total number of the 
securities of the Company to be placed 
(disposed) without the pre-emptive right 
of purchase in the course of the initial 
public offering of the stocks (shares) of 
the Company and global depositary 
receipts, the underlying asset of which 
are these stocks (shares), on stock 
exchanges operating in the territory of 
the Republic of Kazakhstan and foreign 
states; decided on the placement of 
stocks (shares) of the Company and the 
price of their placement within the limits 
of the number of authorised stocks 
(shares) of the Company; approved the 
procedure, deadlines and total number of 
the securities of the Company to be sold 
without applying the pre-emptive right to 
purchase within the framework of the 
payment of the incentives to the 
employees of the Company; approved the 
decisions of the Board of Directors of the 
Company on the Company’s conclusion of 
interested party transactions; resolved to 
take one (1) Airbus A321ceo type aircraft 
and one (1) Airbus A320neo type aircraft 
into operating lease.
3.
  At the meeting of the Extraordinary 
General Meeting of Shareholders on 09 
February 2024, resolutions were passed 
regarding the following matters: election 
of the Board of Directors for a period of 
two years; election of Nurlan Zhakupov as 
the Chairman of the Board of Directors of 
the Company; approval of the amount 
and terms of remuneration and 
compensation to the independent 
directors of the Company; approval of the 
restated methodology for determining the 
value of shares for the purposes of their 
repurchase by the Company; approval of 
the Grades of Employees of the Company 
eligible for IPO Bonus, Long Term 
Incentive Plan (LTI) and Employee Share 
Ownership Plan (ESOP) in accordance with 
the Rules of Employee Incentive Plan of 
the Company.
4.
  On 30 May 2024, the Annual General 
Shareholders’ Meeting considered and 
made decision on the following matters: 
elected the counting commission of the 
Company; approved the consolidated and 
separate annual financial statements of 
the Company for the year ended 31 
December 2023; decided to pay no 
dividends on the Company’s shares for 
the year 2023; considering the resignation 
of Myles Westcott, the member of the 
Board of Directors of the Company, 
effective from 30 May 2024, elected 
Assanov Diyas as the member of the 
Board of Directors - Independent Director 
of the Company effective from 31 May 
2024; established the amount and terms 
of remuneration and compensation to the 
member of the Board of Directors - 
Independent Director Assanov Diyas; 
considered the information on the 
shareholders’ appeals against the actions 
of the Company and its officers, as well as 
the information about the amount and 
composition of the remuneration for the 
members of the Board of Directors and 
Executive Body of the Company.
5.
  On 15 November 2024, the Extraordinary 
General Meeting was held to consider and 
decide on the issue of amendment of the 
major transaction earlier approved by the 
decision of the General Meeting of 
Shareholders of the Company and the 
Company’s entry into a major transaction 
(series of interrelated transactions), which 
is an interested party transaction by 
entering into an Assignment Agreement 
under the Fleet Management Programme 
of the Airbus A320neo family for the 
maintenance of PW1100G type engines 
between International Aero Engines, LLC, 
FlyArystan JSC and Air Astana JSC.
Employee engagement
We are the leading employer in Kazakhstan, 
employing 6,546 people across all our 
operations. We recognise that the success of 
our business relies on the dedication and skill 
of our employees.
The Air Astana Group continually engages 
with employees through various initiatives, 
including employee pulse surveys, regular 
communications from the Chief Executive 
Officer and conferences held offline and 
streamed via YouTube. To measure labour 
relations, the Air Astana Group works with 
Gallup to conduct Employee Social Stability 
Index surveys bi-annually.
The employees of the Company form various 
professional unions for representing their 
interests on various matters: one union 
represents the Air Astana Group’s cabin crew, 
engineers and other employees, while two 
other unions represent pilots. The Air Astana 
Group recognises the importance of 
engaging with the labour unions and other 
representative bodies across its operations to 
promote the success of the business. The Air 
Astana Group executes separate standard 
employment agreements with its pilots, 
cabin crew members and other personnel.
Corporate Governance report Board leadership and Company purpose continued Corporate Governance report Board leadership and Company purpose continued 
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 103   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024102   
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
The Air Astana Group believes that, by 
pursuing its corporate HEART values for Air 
Astana and CHARM values for FlyArystan, it 
has created a positive work environment for 
its employees. It promotes a culture of 
recognition, with a focus on training and 
development, and provides equal 
opportunities to ensure it retains its 
employees and attracts new talent.
The Board of Directors, through its ESG 
Committee, regularly considers the reports of 
the management of the Company on the 
results of Employee Social Stability Index 
surveys as well as consideration of any appeals 
coming from the unions or employees, if any. 
In September 2024, all members of the Board 
of Directors visited the site where the 
Company performed the 12-year C-check. Air 
Astana became the first Kazakh carrier to 
carry out this significant maintenance event, 
which was conducted on an Air Astana 
Airbus A321 aircraft. The visit provided an 
opportunity for Board members to engage 
directly with key personnel, gain a deeper 
understanding of the operational processes, 
and demonstrate their support for the 
airline’s technical capabilities. This 
involvement also allowed the Board to make 
informed decisions about the airline’s future 
direction. By participating in such critical 
maintenance milestones, the Board 
reinforced Air Astana’s commitment to safety, 
quality and continued growth within 
Kazakhstan’s aviation industry.
Further, the Board of Directors is considering 
the recommendations of the UK Corporate 
Governance Code for workforce engagement, 
and will report in due course on the method 
it has chosen.
Board activities in 2024
In 2024, the Board of Directors held 20 meetings, including 11 meetings in person. The attendance at meetings by Board members was 100%. Among 
the regular matters under consideration, the Board’s major focus in 2024 was on: the preparations for the IPO of the Group which took place in February 
2024 and post IPO life, as well as the full separation and start of operations of the FlyArystan low-cost airline wholly owned by Air Astana JSC.
Areas of focus Topics discussed
Strategy ► Deciding on an announcement of the Company’s intention to publish a Registration Document and expected intention to float 
the securities of the Company on the London Stock Exchange, Astana International Exchange and Kazakhstan Stock Exchange JSC
► Deciding on an announcement by the Company confirming its intention to float the securities of the Company on the London 
Stock Exchange, Astana International Exchange and Kazakhstan Stock Exchange JSC
► Deciding on the price range for the planned initial public offering (IPO) and its publication, and on publication of the preliminary 
prospectus in the Republic of Kazakhstan for the purposes of a planned retail offering
► Deciding on the placement (sale) of the Company shares without applying the pre-emptive right of purchase in the course of 
the IPO, and global depositary receipts, the underlying asset of which are these shares, on stock exchanges operating in the 
territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan and a foreign state
► Approval of the Development Plan (Annual Budget) of the Company for 2025
► Approval of the Development Plan (Business Plan) of the Company for 2025-2029
► Discussion of the issue of creating a new legal entity for ground handling service with 100% ownership of the Company
Risk management ► Approval of the restated Risk Management Policy of the Company
► Approval of the restated policy on organising insurance coverage for the Company
► Approval of the risk appetite of the Company 
► Approval of the risk capacity of the Company 
► Quarterly approval of the updated Risk Map and Risk Register of the Company 
► Quarterly consideration of the report on realised risks of the Company
► Consideration of the operational safety review of the Company at each in-person meeting
Areas of focus Topics discussed
Operations and 
finance
► Approval of the decision of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) on the Company opening a personal account in the nominee holder 
system of Joint Stock Company Subsidiary of Halyk Bank of Kazakhstan, Halyk Finance (Kazakhstan)
► Approval of the Special procurement procedure of the Company and organisations with fifty or more percent of voting shares 
(participatory interests) directly or indirectly owned by the Company under the right of ownership or trust management in a 
new edition
► Deciding on the Company entering into interested-party transactions
► Considering the proposal of the CEO on the operating lease of one Airbus A321ceo type aircraft
► Considering the proposal of the CEO on the extension of the operating lease of one Airbus A320neo type aircraft
► Considering the proposal of the CEO for the purchase of one GEnx-1B74/75 type spare engine for Boeing 787-9 type aircraft
► Deciding on the increase of the Company’s obligations by an amount equal to 10 % or more of its own capital 
► Deciding on repurchase by the Company in the secondary market of the Company’s placed shares and the global depositary 
receipts, the underlying assets of which are these shares
► Considering the report on the preliminary results of financial and operational activity of the Company for 12 months of 2023
► Considering the report on the results of financial and operational activity of the Company at each in-person meeting
► Considering the quarterly cash forecast updates of the Company
► Considering the quarterly treasury report of the Company on placed deposits and bank exposure
► Banks overview for 2024
► Opening bank accounts in JSC Aktiv Bank (Tajikistan) and O! Bank (Kyrgyzstan)
► Change of the booking centre for the Company’s short-term deposits from Société Générale London Branch to Société 
Générale Paris
► Approval of the Procurement Standard of Air Astana Group
► Approval of the Air Astana Group Procurement Process Manual
► Preliminary approval of the annual consolidated financial statements of the Company for 2023
► Preliminary approval of the audited annual separate financial statements of the Company for 2023
► Proposals on the procedure for distribution of the net income of the Company for 2023 and the amount of the 2023 annual 
dividend per one common share
► Deciding on the formation of the Branch Office of Air Astana JSC in Seoul, the Republic of Korea 
► Deciding on the closure of representative offices of the Company in Almaty and Astana
► Approval of the restated Cash Management, Bank Risk & Treasury Reporting Policy of the Company
► Approval of the restated Accounting Policy of the Company
► Amending the transaction previously approved by the Board of Directors in connection with the extension of the tenor of 
secured revolving credit facilities in Halyk Bank of Kazakhstan JSC
► Amending the major transaction previously approved by the Board of Directors in connection with entering by the Company 
into an Assignment, Assumption and Amendment Agreement for one Airbus A321neo LR type aircraft
► Amending the transaction previously approved by the Board of Directors in connection with entering by the Company into the 
Co-lessee agreements
► Amending the transaction previously approved by the Board of Directors in connection with the extension of the operating 
lease of one Airbus A321neo type aircraft
Corporate Governance report Board leadership and Company purpose continued Corporate Governance report Board leadership and Company purpose continued 
 
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024104   105   
Corporate Governance report Board leadership and Company purpose continued Corporate Governance report Board leadership and Company purpose continued 
Areas of focus Topics discussed
Governance, audit 
and compliance
 ► Preliminary approval of the restated Company Corporate Governance Code 
 ► Approval of the Company’s international prospectus
 ► Approval of Company documents related to prevention of misuse of inside information: 
3 Rules on Internal Control over Management and Use of Insider Information of Air Astana JSC 
3 Securities Dealing Procedures Manual of Air Astana JSC  
3 Securities Dealing Code of Air Astana JSC  
3 Group-Wide Dealing Policy of Air Astana JSC  
3 Disclosure Policy of Air Astana JSC 
 ►  Considering the results of the independent limited assurance of the selected information disclosed in the Company’s 
Integrated Annual Report  
 ► Approval of the restated Regulations of the Committees of the Board of Directors of the Company
 ► Consideration of issues of the Internal Audit Service of the Company 
3 Performance evaluation of the IAS for 2023  
3 Report on the activities of the IAS   
3 Approval of the amended Annual Audit Plan of the IAS for 2024 
3 Approval of the updated staff schedule of the IAS 
3 Approval of the Key Performance Indicators of the Internal Audit Service for 2025  
3 Approval of the Annual Audit Plan of the Internal Audit Service for 2025 
3 Approval of the budget of the Internal Audit Service for 2025 
3 Approval of the restated Regulations of the Internal Audit Service 
3 Approval of the updated Assurance Map 
3 Approval of the amended Internal Audit Manual
 ► Considering issues related to Company compliance 
3 Annual Compliance Report for the 2023  
3 Approval of the Risk-oriented annual Compliance plan for 2024  
3 Report on internal analysis of corruption risks 
3 Information on reports received via the Company’s whistleblowing hotline and internal investigations  
3 Report on conflicts of interest of the Company’s officials and employees 
3 Approval of the amended Policy for Prevention and Resolution of Conflicts of Interest of the Company 
3 Reports of the Compliance Service 
3 Approval of the restated Sanctions Policy of the Company
 ►  Determining the fee to be paid for the additional services of the external auditor performing the audit of the financial 
statements of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2023
 ►  Approving the annual report on the performance of the Board of Directors of the Company and the Committees of the Board 
of Directors of the Company for 2023
 ►  Approving of the integrated Annual Report of the Company for 2023
 ►  Deciding on convening the Annual and Extraordinary General Meetings of Shareholders of the Company and formation  
of the agenda
 ►  Submitting matters to be resolved by the Annual Extraordinary General Meetings of Shareholders of the Company for 
consideration and resolution by the General Meeting of Shareholders of the Company
 ► Considering the quarterly Investor Relations updates
 ► Approving the amended Procedure of the Company for the selection of the audit organisation
 ► Approving the Regulations of the Compliance Service of the Company
 ► Considering of issues related to Company sustainability
 ►  Considering of the results of the joint study with EBRD and KazMunayGas on potential of production and consumption  
of SAF in Kazakhstan
Areas of focus Topics discussed
People  ► Considering the issues related to nomination of the Company’s employees and officials 
3 Deciding on the re-election of the members of the Committees of the Board of Directors of the Company 
3 Appointing the employees of the Internal Audit Service of the Company 
3 Considering the candidate for the position of an Independent Director of the Company 
3 Termination of authorities of the employee of the Internal Audit Service of the Company 
3 Termination of the authorities of the Senior Compliance and Sustainability Officer of the Company  
3 Appointment of the Head of the Compliance Service of the Company
3  Confirming the authorities of the CEO in view of the change of the title of the sole Executive Body of the Company
 ► Considering the issues related to remuneration of the Company’s employees/officials 
3  Approving the list of employees eligible for grant of the Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP), IPO bonus and Long-Term 
Incentive (LTI).Determining the amount of the remuneration and vesting of the first tranche of the IPO bonus to the eligible 
employees of the Company
3  Determining the amount of the Company Performance Bonus for 2023 for the employees whose remuneration is determined 
by the Board of Directors of the Company
3  Amending the terms of the IPO Bonus for the management staff of the Company
3  Considering the proposals for the annual review of the salaries of the employees whose remuneration shall be determined 
by the Board of Directors of the Company
3  Determining the amount and conditions of remuneration and compensations paid to the employees of the Internal Audit 
Service of the Company
3  Determining the amount of the Company Performance Bonus for 2023 to the employees whose remuneration is determined 
by the Board of Directors of the Company
3 Approving the amended list of the Company’s employees eligible for a grant of the IPO bonus  
3 Approving the amended list of the Company’s employees eligible for a grant of LTI 
3 Salary increase for the CEO
3 Approving the amendments to the labour contract with the CEO
3  Determining the amount of the 2024 Year End Bonus payment to the employees of the Company whose remuneration is 
determined by the Board of the Directors of the Company
3  Approving the terms of the Company Performance Bonus (KPIs) for 2025 for the employees whose terms of remuneration are 
determined or approved by the Board of the Directors
3  Approving the terms of the payment of the Long-Term Incentive (KPIs) for 2025-2027 for the employees of the Company 
whose terms of remuneration are determined or approved by the Board of the Directors
3 Amending the lists of eligible employees to receive the IPO bonus and LTI
Matters related to 
subsidiaries 
(FlyArystan JSC)
 ► Deciding on entering into interested-party transactions by FlyArystan JSC
 ► Determination and approval of the amount of remuneration of the President of FlyArystan JSC
 ► Company Performance Bonus for 2023
 ► Payment of the first tranche of the IPO bonus to the President of FlyArystan JSC
 ► Salary Increase for the President of FlyArystan JSC
 ► Termination of authorities and election of the President of FlyArystan JSC
 ► Termination of authorities and election of the member of the Board of Directors of FlyArystan JSC
 ►  Considering information about the appeals of the Sole Shareholder of FlyArystan JSC to the actions of FlyArystan JSC and its 
officials in 2023
 ► Approving the audited annual financial statements of FlyArystan JSC for the year ended 31 December 2023
 ►  Approving the procedure for distributing the net income of FlyArystan JSC for the year 2023, deciding on payment of dividends 
on ordinary shares and approving the amount of the dividend for the year 2023 per one ordinary share of FlyArystan JSC
 ► Determining and approving the amount and terms of payment of remuneration to the President of FlyArystan JSC
 ► Approving the restated Charter of FlyArystan JSC
 ► Approving the Annual Budget of FlyArystan JSC for 2025
 ► Approving the Business Plan of FlyArystan JSC for 2025-2029
 ► Approving the 2024 Year-End Bonus for the President of FlyArystan JSC 
 ► Approving the terms of the Company Performance Bonus (KPIs) for 2025 to the President of FlyArystan JSC
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024106   107   
Corporate Governance report
Strategic Planning Committee report
Garry Kingshott
Chair
 Roles and responsibilities
The Strategic Planning Committee assists with the effective 
performance of the Board of Directors and makes 
recommendations to the Board for making decisions on the 
following issues:
 ►  Determining the Company’s priority areas of business activity and 
development
 ►  Approving the long-term strategy of the development, the 
medium-term and short-term business plans (development plan 
and annual budget) and major investment projects
 ►  Reviewing the Company’s performance to budget, business plan 
and ten-year strategy
 ► Corporate governance issues
 ►  The Company’s strategy in view of changes in the economic, 
political, social and competitive environment
 ►  Improvements to the Company’s long-term performance and 
competitiveness in the aviation transportation market
 
 
Yeldar Abdrazakov has chaired the Committee since October 2022. 
He brings substantial market expertise and is supported by a 
senior management team with strong ESG Yeldar Abdrazakov 
has chaired the Committee since October 2022. He brings 
substantial market expertise and is supported by a senior 
management team with strong ESG crdentials. Yeldar has the 
necessary experience to successfully lead the development 
and oversight of the Company’s ESG systems and strategy.
Roles and responsibilities
The ESG Committee develops recommendations to the 
Board on building an effective ESG system in the Company. 
The ESG Committee is responsible for:
 ►  Overseeing the Company’s ESG-related goals, metrics and initiatives
 ►  Monitoring the Company’s progress towards achieving its ESG objectives 
 ► Review of and recommendations for approving ESG-related policies 
 ►  Review and approval of ESG-related disclosures in the Company’s 
Annual Report
Composition and attendance
Name Position Meetings attended  
(total 5)
Yeldar 
Abdrazakov 
Committee Chair
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
         
Janet Heckman Independent Non-Executive 
Director
      
Simon Wood Non-Executive Director       
Aidar Ryskulov Non-Executive Director       
Diyas Assanov1 Independent Non-Executive 
Director
 
1 Member of the Committee since 19 November 2024.
Composition and attendance
Name Position Meetings attended  
(total 4)
Garry Kingshott Committee Chair
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
              
Janet Heckman Independent Non-Executive 
Director
    
Diyas Assanov1 Independent Non-Executive 
Director
Simon Wood2 Non-Executive Director
   
Myles Westcott 3 Non-Executive Director    
1 Member of the Committee since 19 November 2024.
2 Member of the Committee since 18 June 2024.
3 Member of the Committee until 30 May 2024.
Corporate Governance report
ESG Committee report
Yeldar Abdrazakov
Chair
Main activities during 2024 
During 2024, one of the Committee’s major focuses was on the 
Company’s post-IPO performance and the execution of the 
business strategies the Company committed to investors. At each 
meeting, the Committee received an Investor Relations update and 
made recommendations to the Board on various related matters.
With the start of separate operations of FlyArystan, the 
Committee’s responsibility has been extended to matters related 
to the Company’s subsidiary, including recommendations to the 
Board on issues related to corporate governance and the business 
operations of FlyArystan. In November 2024, the Committee 
recommended approval of FlyArystan’s Annual Budget for 2025 
and the Business Plan (Development Plan) for 2025–2029.
The Committee has also been engaged in regular reviews of the 
Company’s performance against the budget and cash forecast 
reports. It also made recommendations about the procedure for 
the distribution of the net income and payment of shareholder 
dividends for 2023. 
Looking to the future, the Committee recommended approval of 
the Company’s Annual Budget for 2025 and the Business Plan 
(Development Plan) for 2025–2029 as well as continuing the work 
on the implementation of the proposal of the management of the 
Company on the creation of a new legal entity (commercial 
company) for provision of ground handling services wholly owned 
by the Company.  
Main activities during 2024 
In 2024, the ESG Committee held five meetings, including four 
meetings in person.
The year commenced with the ESG Committee’s review of the 
implementation status of key ESG initiatives undertaken in 2023, as 
part of the broader ESG Strategy for 2023–2032. The Committee also 
considered the findings of the joint study conducted with the 
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) and 
KazMunayGas, on the potential for the production and consumption 
of Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) in Kazakhstan. 
Further, the Committee reviewed the results of the limited 
assurance of non-financial indicators presented in the Sustainability 
section of the Company’s Integrated Annual Report 2023, supporting 
efforts to enhance data reliability and stakeholder confidence.
Throughout the year, the Committee continued to monitor the 
progress of the Climate-Related Risks and Opportunities Project, which 
aligns with the TCFD framework and aims to identify, assess and 
manage climate-related risks and opportunities. More information on 
the Company’s governance of climate-related risks and the TCFD 
recommendations can be found on pages 188-195 of this report. 
In addition, the Committee considered the findings of the periodic 
ESG Review, which included an analysis of relevant industry trends 
and an internal assessment of the Company’s ESG performance. The 
Committee also reviewed the Company’s ESG Communications 
Strategy, developed by the Corporate Communications Department, 
as well as ESG-related materials published on external and internal 
communication platforms aimed at building awareness of the 
Company’s ESG initiatives and projects. For more information on 
some of our other ESG initiatives, please refer to the Communities 
section of this annual report on pages 72-73.   
  
Priorities for 2025 
The Strategic Planning Committee will continue to fulfil its general 
responsibilities with a focus on monitoring new projects and carrying 
out its activities in accordance with the approved plan of work, which 
includes:
 ►  Considering the opportunities for improvements of the Company’s 
long-term performance and competitiveness
 ►  Reviewing the Company’s performance against budget, business 
plan and ten-year strategy
 ►  Reviewing regular updates on the Company’s cash position
 ►  Reviewing regular updates on the Company’s investor relations
 ►  Considering the Annual Budget and Business Plan for the next 
five-year cycle
Priorities for 2025 
In 2025, the ESG Committee will continue to support the Company’s 
efforts toward a more sustainable future, in line with global aviation 
developments, standards and evolving regulations. Priorities will include 
the finalisation and verification of the existing Low Carbon Development 
Program (LCDP), with consideration of a 2050 net-zero target and setting 
SAF blending benchmarks. Focus is also expected to be on building the 
sustainable procurement system, waste management, calculating the 
Scope 3 emissions and preparing disclosures in accordance with the IFRS 
S2. Social responsibility will remain central, with attention to workforce 
engagement, wellbeing, diversity, and ESG-focused training. Stakeholder 
engagement and cross-industry collaboration may be encouraged, to 
reinforce the Company’s role as a responsible connector of people, 
cultures and economies. 
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 109   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024108   
Corporate Governance report
Division of responsibilities
Air Astana JSC is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
The aims of the Company’s corporate governance framework are to:
 ► manage with due responsibility, accountability and effectiveness in order to maximise Company and shareholder value
 ► provide transparency and due disclosure of information 
 ► ensure the effectiveness of risk management and its internal control system
  
Board roles and responsibilities
Role of the Chairman: Nurlan Zhakupov
The Chairman, who is a Non-Executive Director, is responsible for both the leadership, and the effectiveness, of all the functions of the Board. 
In this role, he is supported by the Independent Directors. The Chairman oversees the work of the Board of Directors, ensures the Board’s 
effective performance across its areas of responsibility, and that all Directors make a contribution to the Board’s activities, including 
interaction with the CEO of the Company.
Role of other Non-Executive Directors:  Simon Wood, Aidar Ryskulov
Any shareholder of the Company can nominate Non-Executive Directors to be elected by the General Meeting of shareholders, subject to 
compliance with the Company’s Charter. These nominees bring diverse financial and operational experience and expertise to the Board and 
its Committees, as well as adding an external perspective and objectivity to the Board’s decision-making. In addition to their involvement 
with the development, approval and review of Company strategy, our Non-Executive Directors are able to provide constructive appraisals of 
the performance of the Executive team.
Role of Independent Non-Executive Directors: Yeldar Abdrazakov, Keith Gaebel, Janet Heckman, Garry Kingshott, Diyas Assanov
The Board is balanced by the selection of Independent Directors, who complement the composition of the Board through their skills, valuable 
experience and diversity. Independent directors provide a fresh perspective and objectively assess the Company’s strategy, goals and 
situation. They provide an independent, external perspective, offering guidance, oversight, and strategic input.
Role of the CEO: Peter Foster 
The Chief Executive Officer sits on the Board of Directors, has responsibility for the day-to-day activity of the Company, and has a legal 
mandate to make decisions on any matters relating to the activity of the Company that are not, under the JSC Law, other legislative acts of 
Kazakhstan or the Charter, within the competence of other bodies or officers of the Company.
  
Supporting roles
Role of the Corporate Secretary
The Corporate Secretary plays a major role in enabling open dialogue across the business, while also ensuring all the Company’s different 
governing bodies uphold both legislative and Company requirements. The Corporate Secretary’s role is also to safeguard the rights of all 
shareholders and ensure shareholder communications are considered by the relevant body, and resolve any disputes involving shareholders’ 
rights. Board approval is required for the appointment and removal of the Corporate Secretary.
Role of the Internal Audit Service
The Internal Audit Service provides risk-based and objective assurance, advice and insight to protect and enhance the value of the Company.
Role of Compliance Service and Sustainability Department*
The mission of the Compliance Service and Sustainability Department is to assist the Company in achieving its strategic goals in accordance 
with the requirements of legislative, ethical and social norms (compliance) and without damage to its sustainability from a long-term 
perspective, taking into consideration stakeholders’ expectations (sustainability).
* In July 2024, the Board of Directors decided to restructure the Compliance Service and Sustainability Department by dividing it into two separate structu ral units, namely: 
  The Compliance Service, which reports to the Board of Directors, with its activities overseen by the A udit Committee, and the Sustainability Department w hich reports to the  
CEO, with its activities overseen by the ESG Commit tee.
The nine members of the Board of Directors – three Non-Executive Directors, five Independent Non-Executive Directors and the CEO of the 
Company representing the Senior Management Team – uphold Air Astana’s corporate governance principles and, in doing so, ensure the 
Company generates long-term shareholder value through its safe, sustainable and successful operations.
Corporate Governance report Division of responsibilities continued 
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 111   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024110   
E
S E
T
T N
N
A S
E T
N
A
A A
A
N
S
N
E
S
T
S
N
E S
Nurlan Zhakupov
Chairman of the Board  
of Directors
Non-Executive Director
Representative of the 
shareholder National Welfare 
Fund Samruk-Kazyna JSC 
Appointed December 2023
Nurlan Zhakupov graduated from Moscow 
State Institute of International Relations of 
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian 
Federation: Candidate of economic sciences; 
Master of Economics and Bachelor of 
Economics (International Economic Relations 
Department). Prior to his appointment as the 
CEO of National Welfare Fund Samruk-
Kazyna JSC in April 2023, Mr. Zhakupov 
served in a variety of management and 
senior management positions. He held the 
post of the Chief Executive Officer of 
Kazakhstan Investment Development Fund 
Management Company Ltd, representative 
of Rothschild & Co in Kazakhstan, Chief 
Executive Officer of JSC SEC ASTANA, 
Managing Director for Development and 
Investment and member of the 
Management Board at NAC Kazatomprom 
JSC. He previously held various managerial 
positions in finance in Royal Bank of 
Scotland, UBS BANK, Head of Astana office, 
National Mining Company Tau-Ken Samruk, 
Credit Suisse, Research, Investment and 
Development Ltd, Chambishi Metals Plc, 
Eurasian Industrial Association.
Other appointments: 
Chairman of the Management Board of 
National Welfare Fund Samruk-Kazyna JSC
Member of the Board of Directors of the 
National Welfare Fund Samruk-Kazyna JSC
Aidar Ryskulov
Non-Executive Director
Representative of the 
shareholder National 
Welfare Fund Samruk-
Kazyna JSC
Appointed September 2023
Aidar Ryskulov holds a Master of Business 
Administration degree from Nazarbayev 
University (Executive MBA). He is a 
graduate of Karaganda State University 
(named after E.A. Buketov) majoring in 
finance and credit. He has held senior 
positions in finance for more than 20 
years. He was a member of the Board of 
Directors in various companies and banks, 
including Sekerbank T.A.S. (Turkey), 
Development Bank of Kazakhstan, 
Investment Fund of Kazakhstan, 
Kazexportgarant, Alliance Bank and 
Samruk-Kazyna Finance.  
Other appointments: 
Managing Director for Economics and 
Finance of Samruk-Kazyna JSC
Member of the Board of Directors of 
Kazatomprom JSC 
Member of the Board of Directors of National 
Company Kazakhstan TemirZholy JSC
Peter Foster
Executive Director, 
Chief Executive Officer of Air 
Astana JSC
Appointed as CEO October 2005 
Appointed August 2019
Mr. Foster has been CEO of Air Astana JSC 
since October 2005. In August 2019, after 
the position of CEO had been added to the 
composition of the Board of Directors, Mr. 
Foster was appointed as a member of the 
Board of Directors of the Company as an 
Executive Director. He entered the airline 
industry immediately after graduating 
from Cambridge University in 1982, as a 
management trainee of John Swire and 
Sons (HK) Ltd, the owners of Cathay Pacific 
Airways Ltd. From 1982 to 1999 he served 
in a variety of management and senior 
management positions with Cathay Pacific 
Airways in Hong Kong, Asia, Australia and 
Europe, and underwent business 
management training at INSEAD, France. 
Mr. Foster left Cathay Pacific Airways in 
1999 to head up the rehabilitation team of 
Philippine Airlines Inc. He subsequently 
served as Chief Executive Officer of Royal 
Brunei Airlines from 2002 to 2005 prior to 
his appointment as the CEO of Air Astana. 
In the 2015 UK New Year’s Honours List, 
Peter Foster was awarded Officer of the 
Order of the British Empire (OBE) for his 
services to British aviation in Kazakhstan. 
Other appointments:
Chairman of the Board of Directors of 
FlyArystan JSC
Yeldar  
Abdrazakov
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Appointed March 2020
Yeldar Abdrazakov holds a BA and MSc in 
International Economic Relations from 
Yassawi University, Turkistan and has also 
finished the General Management 
Programme at Harvard Business School, 
Boston, USA. Yeldar has held senior roles in 
commercial and investment banking for 
over 30 years. He was Managing Director 
from 1995 to 2003 at Kazkommertsbank 
(KAZKOM); CEO from 2002 to 2004 at 
Kazkommerts Securities, founder & CEO at 
the Centras Group since 2004. Yeldar is a 
chartered director at the UK’s International 
Institute of Directors (IoD) and the Chairman 
of the Kazakhstan Competitiveness Council. 
Other appointments: 
Member of the Board of Directors of KASE
Janet  
Heckman
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Appointed January 2019
Janet Heckman holds a Master of Science 
in Foreign Service from Georgetown 
University in Washington, D.C. Between 
1980 and 2012 she held various positions 
at Citi with a focus on corporate banking. 
She was the Managing Director for Citi’s 
corporate and investment banking 
activities in Algeria from 2008 to 2012. Ms. 
Heckman joined EBRD in 2012 as a Country 
Director for Kazakhstan. She was a 
Managing Director for Southern and 
Eastern Mediterranean (SEMED) for EBRD 
from January 2017 to December 2019. 
Other appointments:
Independent Non-Executive Director – 
Member of the Board of Directors of 
Astana International Exchange (AIX)
Independent Non-Executive Director – 
Member of the Supervisory Board of TBC 
Bank (Georgia) PLC 
Independent Non-Executive Director – 
Member of the Board of Directors of 
Citibank Kazakhstan JSC
Keith Gaebel
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Appointed March 2020
Keith Gaebel is a leading expert in 
financial reporting and corporate 
governance. During his 25 years’ 
experience with large international 
chartered accounting firms, Mr. Gaebel 
held various positions including the Head 
of the Financial Reporting Group (FRG) for 
the Commonwealth of Independent 
States (PricewaterhouseCoopers – 2000 to 
2004; Ernst & Young – 2004 to 2008) and 
was a Global Authority on various 
International Financial Reporting 
Standards. In addition, as a recognised 
world-class expert, he was involved in 
the development of various international 
financial reporting standards. As Head of 
the FRG, he supported clients’ public 
offerings by reviewing for compliance 
with financial reporting and corporate 
governance. Mr. Gaebel was the Ernst & 
Young Managing Partner for Central Asia 
and Caucasus from 2008 to 2013. 
Other appointments:
Independent Non-Executive Director in 
National Payment Corporation of the 
National Bank of the Republic of 
Kazakhstan JSC
Garry Kingshott
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Appointed August 2019
After a successful early career in various 
FMCG businesses from 1974 to 1990, Mr. 
Kingshott transitioned into Aviation 
joining Ansett Airlines (Australia) in 1990. 
He now has 30 years’ combined 
experience in the Aviation, Travel and 
Tourism and Airline industries, spanning 
three continents. Most recently Mr. 
Kingshott served Cebu Air Inc. as Chief 
Executive from 2008 to 2016, overseeing 
a successful IPO in 2010, and served as a 
member of the Advisory Board at Cebu 
Air Inc. until June 2022. Mr. Kingshott has 
served as a Company Director/ Chairman 
for a variety of businesses including 
Airlines, Travel Agencies, National 
Tourism and Financial Services. Mr. 
Kingshott is a member of the Australian 
Institute of Company Directors (MAICD).
Other appointments:
None
Diyas Assanov
Non-Executive  
Independent Director
Appointed May 2024
Mr. Assanov holds a Bachelor’s degree in 
international relations and engineering 
systems management from United States 
Military Academy at West Point and a 
Bachelor’s degree in international law from 
the Kazakh State Law University, Kazakhstan.
During the last four years, Mr. Assanov has 
served in the role of the General Director of 
the Siemens in Kazakhstan & Central Asia, as 
well as the Head of its Digital Industries and 
Smart Infrastructure businesses in the 
region. Prior to that, he was the General 
Counsel of Siemens Energy, Russia, Eastern 
Europe and Central Asia. 
Mr. Assanov’s extensive experience in 
engineering, transport and communications 
is instrumental in supporting the Company’s 
next stage of development, particularly in 
our continued digitalisation plan.
Other appointments:
Chief Executive Officer of Siemens 
Kazakhstan
Deputy Chairperson of the Board 
of Directors of European Business 
Association of Kazakhstan
Chairperson of the Association of  
German Economy in Kazakhstan 
Simon Wood
Non-Executive Director
Representative of the 
shareholder BAE Systems 
(Kazakhstan) Limited
Appointed January 2019
Simon Wood joined BAE Systems in 1996 
and has held a number of senior finance 
positions within BAE Systems across a 
number of sectors, including Military 
Aircraft, Maritime, Land and Commercial 
Aircraft. In addition to his functional role, 
Mr. Wood has also had responsibility for 
Strategy and Planning, Business 
Transformation and Improvement, 
Systems Implementation, Customer 
Relationship Management and Operational 
Business Delivery. 
Other appointments:
CFO of BAE Systems Maritime and Land 
Sector since March 2023
Member of the Chartered Institute of 
Management Accountants
Audit Committee
ESG Committee
Nomination and  
Remuneration Committee
Strategic Planning Committee
Treasury Committee
Chair
Corporate Governance report
Confident and experienced 
leadership
Board of Directors
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024112   113   
Corporate Governance report
Experienced and proven management
Senior management team
Peter Foster
Chief Executive Officer  
of Air Astana JSC
See page 112
Ibrahim Canliel 
Chief Financial  
Officer 
Years in the Company: 22
Ibrahim Canliel has been with Air 
Astana since its early stages in 2003 
and he has served in a range of roles 
across the Company. Prior to his 
current role of Chief Financial Officer 
since 2017, he served as Senior Vice 
President Commercial Group, Vice 
President and Senior Vice President 
Marketing and Sales, Director 
Commercial Planning. 
He started his career over 35 years 
ago in the travel industry and has  
26 years of aviation management 
experience. Prior to joining Air 
Astana, he worked for KLM Royal 
Dutch Airlines, briefly in the UAE and 
thereafter based in Kazakhstan  
in charge of the Central Asia and 
Caucasus region. He is currently 
serving his eighth term as a Board 
member at EUROBAK. 
Ibrahim holds a Bachelor Degree in 
Economics from Marmara University, 
an MBA of the Bosphorus University 
and more recently completed the 
Directors’ Programme at Cranfield 
University.
Filippos Siakkas
Chief Operating  
Officer
Years in the Company: 11
Filippos studied Business 
Management & Accounting before 
undergoing ab-initio pilot training in 
the US in 1988. He has 20 years of 
experience in airline management 
and held senior positions in flight 
operations and training for Olympic 
Airways, which he joined in 1989. He 
left Olympic in 2013 to join Air Astana.
At Air Astana, Filippos has focused on 
transforming flight crew training with 
innovative solutions such as world 
leading practical crew resource 
management, post-command 
upgrade training, self-learning in low 
level training devices and 
standardising the pilot selection 
process. More recently, he managed 
the procurement of a new Airbus 
A320 full flight simulator in Astana, 
the first of its kind in Kazakhstan, 
which will increase pilot productivity 
and raise operational and training 
standards. Since 2020 he has been 
involved in decision-making and 
management of key operational and 
business aspects, projects and targets. 
Since November 2022 he has been 
appointed to the role of Chief 
Operating Officer.
Gerhard Coetzee 
Chief Safety Compliance 
Officer 
Years in the Company: 19 
Gerhard started his career as a South 
African Air Force navigator completing 
his service in the position of Staff 
Officer Flight Safety responsible for 
Accident Prevention and Aviation 
Safety, including CRM, programmes. 
He has practised and held formal 
appointments in aviation safety and 
flight operations management for the 
past 35 years, including as managing 
consultant with BAE Systems for 
seven years and with Air Astana the 
past 16 years. 
Gerhard helped establish the Safety 
Management System in Air Astana  
at start-up and, since 2006, is also 
responsible for the Compliance 
Monitoring programme managing an 
extended team of dedicated staff. 
Gerhard’s contribution to safety and 
operational performance has been 
formally acknowledged by various 
organisations including the SAAF, FAA 
and NIMA as well as BAE Systems. 
He holds an Honours degree in 
transport economics from the 
University of South Africa, is a 
qualified Air Accident Investigator  
with qualifications in Aviation Safety 
Programme Management, Crew 
Resource Management and Flight 
Procedure Design. 
Yevgeniya Ni 
Chief Human Resources 
Officer 
Years in the Company: 23 
Yevgeniya graduated from Karaganda 
State University with a degree in 
foreign languages and a degree in 
law. She started her career at Air 
Astana as an Executive Assistant to 
the President in 2002, and since 2005 
heads the Human Resources and 
Administration Department, 
responsible for overall HR function and 
services including Recruitment, 
Training, HSE, and Facilities 
Management. Under her leadership, 
the Company introduced a transparent 
system of recruitment and corporate 
training, as well as an employee 
performance appraisal and 
remuneration system. The Company 
holds the following HR awards: ‘WOW 
HR’ in 2018–2019, ‘Best HR Brand in 
Central Asia’ in 2017–2020 
(Headhunter), ‘Best HR Director’ in 
2018–2019 (Growth Forum 
Kazakhstan), ‘Best Employer’ in 
2016–2020 by Universum and ‘Best 
Employer in Transport and Logistics’ in 
2020–2021 (Randstad Employer Brand 
Research). 
Yevgeniya is a certified Senior 
Professional in Human Resources – 
International, member of Airline 
People Directors Council (APDC) and 
regularly takes part in professional 
conferences as an expert and speaker. 
Yerdaulet Shamshiyev 
Chief Government Relations 
Officer 
Years in the Company: 22 
Yerdaulet was one of Air Astana’s first 
employees and has over 20 years’ 
experience in aviation. He joined the 
airline as Chief Representative in the 
Beijing office in 2002. In 2009 he was 
appointed Regional General Manager 
China and Mongolia of Air Astana. He 
currently holds the position of Chief 
Government Relations Officer. Prior to 
joining Air Astana, Yerdaulet worked 
at the Almaty International Airport and 
Air Kazakhstan airline. He graduated 
from the Beijing Language University 
and Academy of Civil Aviation, Almaty. 
Piyush Taori 
Chief Digital and Information 
Officer 
Years in the Company: 2  
Piyush has a Bachelors’ degree in 
Electronics Engineering and a 
Master’s degree in Software Systems 
from Birla Institute of Technology & 
Science, Pilani in India. He joined Air 
Astana group as CIO for FlyArystan in 
August 2023 and was subsequently 
appointed Chief Digital and Information 
Officer for the Air Astana Group. Prior 
to joining Air Astana, Piyush worked 
in the Middle East for Emirates 
Airlines, Qatar Airways and Gulf Air 
for well over two decades. He held 
different IT management and senior 
management roles in these airlines, 
heading IT at Gulf Air just before 
joining Air Astana. Piyush has 
substantial experience of leading 
large teams and managing large 
scale in-house software development, 
including large product development. 
In his previous roles, he also led 
large-scale digital transformation 
programmes, driving core 
modernisation of IT infrastructure 
and cloud migration.
Corporate Governance report Senior management team continued
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONfulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024114   115   
Corporate Governance report
Composition, succession and 
evaluation
The process for Board nominations is led by the Nomination 
and Remuneration Committee, which also ensures the 
Company has succession plans in place for both Board and 
senior management.
Board composition and independence
The Board is elected by cumulative voting at the General Meeting of 
shareholders, unless one candidate is proposed to be elected to fill 
one vacancy. 
Mr Nurlan Zhakupov, Chairman of the Board since December 2023, is 
nominated by the shareholder National Welfare Fund Samruk-Kazyna 
JSC. To mitigate any concerns about independence, we have five 
Independent Directors on the Board.
Air Astana acknowledges that Standard 20 of the AIFC Market Rules 
recommends the Chairman of a Board of Directors meet the criteria 
for independence. However, as set out in the Charter and as adopted 
by principle 2.5 of the Code, the Chairman of the Board of Directors 
shall be elected from among the members of the Board of Directors 
being representatives of the Shareholder who owns the largest 
number of Shares at the relevant time, provided this Shareholder 
owns more than 30% voting Shares. In accordance with these 
provisions, Samruk-Kazyna, as the largest shareholder at the date of 
this report, and holding on that date 41% of the share capital of the 
Company, has appointed Mr Zhakupov, a representative of Samruk-
Kazyna, as Chairman. Mr Zhakupov does not meet the criteria of 
independence.
According to the Standard 26A of the AIFC Market Rules, the Board 
should include the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial 
Officer. The Company has partly adopted the standard. 
During the year, a number of changes were made to the composition 
of the Board and its Committees. In making these changes, the 
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and Board took into 
account various considerations, including Board diversity, 
independence and the combination of skills, knowledge and 
experience of the Directors. 
According to the previously announced plans, as provided for in the 
Prospectus of the Company published before the IPO in February 
2024, the Non-Executive Director, representative of shareholder BAE 
Systems (Kazakhstan) Limited, Myles St John Westcott, has stepped 
down from the Board of Directors of the Company effective from 30 
May 2024.
Diyas Assanov has been appointed as an Independent Non-Executive 
Director, effective from 31 May 2024.
Mr Assanov’s extensive experience in engineering, transport and 
communications is considered to be instrumental in supporting the 
Company’s next stage of development, particularly in its continued 
digitalisation plan.
With that, the Company’s Board and the management team 
recognises Mr Westcott’s huge support of and contribution to the 
success of the Air Astana Group over the last six years of his Board 
membership. 
We believe the composition of the Board has continued to improve 
and, in line with the Company’s corporate governance framework, is 
well balanced and most advantageous in the competencies and 
diversity of Board members, as well as the representation of 
shareholders’ interests. 
The Board is satisfied that each member of its Directors is able to 
allocate sufficient time, and discharge his or her duties effectively, as 
part of Air Astana’s Board.
Board evaluation
According to the Code, the activities of the Board of Directors are 
subject to an external independent evaluation every three years. 
External evaluation of Board performance was performed in 2023 by 
Nestor Advisors Ltd, a London-based specialist corporate governance 
advisory firm, with subsequent self-assessment in 2024. The 
evaluation in 2023 was conducted via a questionnaire-based survey 
and interviews with Board members, the Corporate Secretary and 
several senior executives. In their feedback, the independent 
consultants noted the Board’s close involvement in overseeing key 
areas of the Company’s operations, internal control and risk 
management practices and the audit process, as well as the Board’s 
well-established procedures and good support from the Corporate 
Secretarial function. It also reported that the composition of the 
Board, through its highly skilled members, had a healthy mix of 
international and local expertise, with the Independent Directors 
contributing to decision-making. In 2024, the Board of Directors 
conducted a self-evaluation through an online multiple-choice 
questionnaire, based on the previous external evaluation. Overall, the 
Board was satisfied with its functioning, with members 
acknowledging strong engagement, collaboration, and a diverse set 
of skills and experiences. The Board also recognised its 
comprehensive understanding of Air Astana’s risk profile and the 
effectiveness of its internal control system. While the Board valued 
the work of its committees, it identified areas for improvement, 
particularly in strategy, gender diversity and procedural aspects, 
which it will address in 2025.
In 2025, the Board will undertake another self-assessment that will 
also assist in monitoring the implementation of the recommendations 
and any improvements.
Board induction and training
In accordance with the approved Induction Programme, within the first 
six months of their appointment, newly appointed Directors undergo an 
onboarding programme. This has been developed to bring them up to 
speed quickly on Air Astana JSC and its key assets, representatives of its 
management bodies, existing practices and standards of corporate 
governance, specific features of the Company and the industry, and 
other information necessary to perform their duties as members of the 
Board of Directors. The new Independent Non-Executive Director, Diyas 
Assanov, underwent the induction process, which included 
familiarisation with the corporate policies and procedures. A special 
induction session was arranged at Air Astana’s offices, where he got a 
chance to meet key managers, who gave an overview of the 
Company’s business and plans.
All the members of the Board of Directors received training focused on 
post-IPO life, covering different aspects, such as reporting obligations, 
continuing obligations, legal considerations and corporate governance 
requirements.  
Information and support
The Chairman of the Board is responsible for ensuring the timely 
receipt by the Directors of the accurate, clear and relevant information 
needed to enable them to perform their duties.
The Senior Management Team and IAS are obliged to provide such 
information and the Directors may request further clarifications and 
explanations as necessary. The Board of Directors and its Committees 
are entitled to use the services of external experts, consultants and 
additional resources to enable them to carry out their duties in full. 
Financial provision for this is made in the Company’s budget each year. 
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Corporate 
Secretary, who is responsible to the Board on matters of corporate 
governance and compliance with Board procedures. The Corporate 
Secretary manages the information flow within the Board of Directors 
and its Committees, and also between the Senior Management Team 
and the Board of Directors. 
The Corporate Secretary has a key role in preparing and overseeing 
the Board of Directors’ meetings and the General Meeting of 
Shareholders, ensuring the disclosure and dissemination of 
information comply with the rights and interests of shareholders.
Re-election
The term of office for each member of the Воаrd of Dirесtоrs is 
dеtеrminеd bу the Gеnеrаl Shагеhоldеrs’ Meeting, but should not be 
for less than two уеаrs. Once elected, there is no limit to the number 
of times members may be re-elected to the Воаrd of Dirесtогs. The 
effectiveness and commitment of each Board member are also 
reviewed, to ensure the interests of the shareholders are fairly and 
objectively represented. Taking account of the other offices and 
interests held by the current Independent Directors, the Board is 
satisfied with the individual skills, relevant experience, contributions 
and time commitment of each. 
Following the IPO in 2024, Board members were re-appointed for the 
term of two years, with the perspective of their re-election in 2026.
Corporate Governance report Composition, succession and evaluation continued 
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 117   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024116   
Main activities during 2024 
Board and Committees
Throughout the year, the Committee made several recommendations 
concerning the composition of the Board of Directors and its various 
committees. These included recommendations for the re-election of 
members of the Board of Directors and Committees. Additionally, the 
Committee reviewed and made recommendations concerning the 
composition of the Strategic Planning and ESG Committees of the 
Board of Directors in view of changes to the Board. 
Terminations and appointments
Several significant decisions were made regarding terminations and 
appointments within the Group. These included recommendations 
regarding the termination of the authorities of the President of 
FlyArystan JSC and the election of a new President. The Committee 
also recommended the appointment of the Head of the Company’s 
Compliance Service following the restructuring of the Compliance 
Service and Sustainability Department into two separate units: the 
Compliance Service, which reports to the Board of Directors, and the 
Sustainability Department, which reports to the CEO. 
Remuneration, compensation and incentive plans
The Committee addressed several important matters related to 
remuneration and incentive plans for both Board members and 
employees of the Company. This included recommending the amount 
and terms of remuneration and compensation for Independent 
Directors and the President of FlyArystan JSC, as well as determining 
the Company Performance Bonus and 2024 Year-End Bonus for 
employees whose remuneration is set by the Board of Directors. The 
Committee also reviewed and updated the Long-Term Incentive (LTI) 
and Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) for eligible employees in 
terms of the employee grades and lists. Additionally, the Committee 
recommended for approval the terms of payment of the 2025–2027 LTI 
for the Chief Executive Officer and other eligible employees by 
establishing KPIs and the targets for 2025–2027 to ensure alignment 
with the Company’s strategic objectives and performance goals.
External engagement 
In 2024, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee engaged Korn 
Ferry to provide additional support in matters of remuneration and in 
the search and selection process for candidates for the role of an 
additional Independent Non-Executive Director. Korn Ferry had no 
connection or affiliation with the Company or individual directors.  
Composition and attendance
Name Position Meetings attended  
(total 10)
Janet Heckman Committee Chair
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
              
        
Garry Kingshott Independent Non-Executive 
Director
              
        
Yeldar Abdrazakov Independent Non-Executive 
Director
              
        
Nurlan Zhakupov Non-Executive Director               
        
Simon Wood1 Non-Executive Director         
Myles Westcott2 Non-Executive Director              
     
1 Member of the Committee since 18 June 2024.
2 Member of the Committee until 30 May 2024.
.
Roles and responsibilities
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee develops 
recommendations for the Board of Directors regarding the 
recruitment and selection of members of the Board of 
Directors, the Executive Body, the head of the IAS, the 
head of Compliance Service, the Corporate Secretary as 
well as other employees whose appointment requires the 
approval of the Board of Directors or Shareholders 
according to Company’s Charter and the legislation of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan. The Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee meets regularly and is 
responsible for the following: 
 ►  Developing of requirements for candidate qualifications and 
recommendations on election or nomination for the roles of, 
amongst others, the Independent Non-Executive Directors and 
the CEO of the Company 
 ►  Ensuring the Board of Directors has the right balance of skills, 
knowledge, independence and experience, having due regard 
to diversity 
 ►  Development of a succession planning policy for the Board of 
Directors and Executive Management
 ►  Recommendations on the policy and structure of 
remuneration
 ►  Review of the Board’s performance evaluation process
Corporate Governance report
Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee report
Janet Heckman
Chair
Corporate Governance report Nomination and Remuneration Committee report continued 
Priorities for 2025 
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee will continue to fulfil its 
general responsibilities and carry out its activities according to the 
approved plan of work for 2025, with special focus on matters related to 
the succession planning and diversity for the Board of Directors.
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 119   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024118   
Corporate Governance report Remuneration report continued 
Remuneration of the Board of Directors
According to the Company’s Charter, the amount and terms of 
remuneration and compensation for the members of the Board of 
Directors is determined by the General Shareholder’s Meeting, while 
the remuneration of the Executive Body is decided by the Board of 
Directors based on the recommendations of the Nomination and 
Remuneration Committee.
According to the Company’s Policy of Remuneration of the Members 
of the Board of Directors: 
    Independent Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee of  
USD 55,222 (before taxes and obligatory payments in accordance 
with the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan) per annum and 
are reimbursed for expenses associated with the performance of 
their duties, including travel-related costs
    Independent Non-Executive Directors and their spouses receive 
discounts for up to six travel tickets per year
    Non-Executive Directors, who are not Independent Non-Executive 
Directors, are not entitled to any fees
    Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive plans
    There are no agreements in place that provide for benefits upon 
termination of service
The Policy of Remuneration of the Members of the Board of Directors 
is available at ir.airastana.com.
As at 31 December 2024, none of the Board members owned 
Company shares.
Total remunerationpaid to Independent Non-Executive Directors in 
2024 amounted to USD 214,577.
Remuneration of the Executive Body
Prior to the stock exchange listing, the Executive Body remuneration 
was reviewed to ensure that, post-listing, it would remain market-
competitive and aligned with the achievement of key performance 
indicators (KPIs), with the majority of potential variable pay provided 
in shares. This structure is summarised as follows:
(i) 
   Base salary 
  Base salary which is reviewed on an annual basis. Any 
increases are generally in line with the average increase for the 
rest of the workforce, albeit the Nomination and Remuneration 
Committee retains the discretion to increase the salary above 
this rate where appropriate. 
(ii)
 Pension and benefits
  The Executive Body may elect to participate in the Company 
pension scheme or receive a cash amount in lieu of pension. 
The pension contribution for the Executive Body will be a cash 
allowance equivalent to 15% of base salary. 
  The benefits include health insurance for medical treatment, 
compulsory and voluntary insurance from accidents, car 
allowance, and partial coverage of children’s school payment.
(iii) Annual performance bonus 
  The annual bonus pay-out is determined following the end of 
the financial year to which it relates, based on performance on 
a range of pre-determined financial and strategic KPIs, with a 
maximum bonus opportunity of 100% of base salary, payable 
in cash. 
  The Nomination and Remuneration Committee has the 
discretion to adjust the formulaic bonus outcome either 
upwards or downwards if it believes it is not a fair and accurate 
reflection of overall business performance and other relevant 
performance factors. 
(iv)
 Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP)
  The Executive Body may be granted a conditional award of 
shares each year. The value of Shares or GDRs subject to the 
award can be a maximum of 150% of salary.
 The amount of the LTIP is based on achievement of KPIs.
  An amount equivalent to the value of dividends payable on 
vested awards over the vesting period may be payable, in cash 
or in shares.
 Awards will vest after three years.
  The Nomination and Remuneration Committee has the discretion 
to adjust the vested LTIP outcome if it believes that the formulaic 
outcome is not a fair and accurate reflection of overall business 
performance and other relevant performance factors.
(v) Shareholding requirement 
  The Executive Body must build and maintain a shareholding 
equivalent to 200% of base salary. If the requirement is not 
met, they must retain 50% of the Shares (net of tax) received 
under the LTIP. 
(vi) Recruitment policy 
  Remuneration packages for new appointments will be set in 
line with the remuneration policy. For external appointments, 
the Company recognises it may need to provide compensation 
for forfeited awards from the individual’s previous employer 
(buy-out awards). To the extent possible, the design of buy-out 
awards will be made on a broadly like-for-like basis, taking into 
account the performance conditions attached to the vesting of 
the forfeited incentives, the timing of vesting and the likelihood 
of vesting. Assistance may be provided for relocation.  
(vii)
 Termination of employment
  The Executive Body has a service contract requiring six months’ 
notice of termination from employees and twelve months’ 
notice from the Company. 
  The Company may, at its sole discretion, terminate the contract 
immediately, at any time after notice is served, by making a 
payment in lieu of notice equivalent to salary. 
  Specific terms apply to the annual bonus and LTIP to determine the 
treatment of outstanding awards in different leaver circumstances. 
In principle, if an executive resigns, they would forfeit outstanding 
awards. However, if they leave in compassionate circumstances, 
the award may continue to be payable. 
(viii) Malus and clawback
  Malus and clawback to the extent permissible under 
Kazakhstani law applies to annual bonus and long-term 
incentive awards at any time before the second anniversary of 
the bonus payment date end of the vesting period. The specific 
circumstances include a material misstatement of any member 
of the Air Astana Group’s financial results, an error in assessing 
a Performance Condition applying to the award, or if the 
Participant commits an act (or acts) amounting to gross 
misconduct that would have entitled their employer to 
summarily dismiss them.
Total remuneration of the Executive Body for 2024 amounted to  
USD 1,139 thousand including IPO award payable in cash.
IPO award 
The Board of Directors determined that the Executive Body should  
be granted a performance bonus in recognition of the strong 
performance of the Company in the lead up to IPO. One third of the 
value of the bonus is payable in cash on, or shortly after, listing, and 
the remaining two thirds granted an award of shares on 17 February 
2024 and vested on 17 February 2025. 
LTIP award
The Executive Body received an LTIP award on 15 February 2024. The 
value of Shares or GDRs subject to the award was equivalent to 150% 
of salary, as at the date of grant. The award will vest after three years, 
on 15 February 2027.
Performance conditions for this award are 60% based on a range  
of net-profit-margin targets in relation to the 2026 year-end number. 
The remaining 40% of the award will be based on the Company’s 
total shareholder return (TSR) performance compared with a peer 
group of other airlines, with vesting proportionate if the Company’s 
TSR is between the median and top quartile relative to the TSR 
performance of the peer group between the date of the IPO and  
31 December 2026. For the Company, the starting TSR will be the  
Offer Price and the closing TSR will be the three-month average prior 
to 31 December 2026; and the starting TSR of the peer group will be 
the three-month average prior to the date of the IPO and the closing 
TSR will be the three-month average at period-end. Each Performance 
Condition will be measured independently and 25% of each part of 
the award will vest at the threshold level of performance.
Corporate Governance report
Remuneration report  
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 121   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024120   
 Roles and responsibilities
The Treasury Committee assisted the Board of Directors 
in monitoring and improving the effectiveness of risk 
management of the Company’s treasury functions. 
The Treasury Committee is responsible for the following:
 ►  Verifying control mechanisms for the Company’s treasury activities 
and ensuring the effectiveness and improvement of policies and 
procedures in the treasury function 
 ►  Monitoring treasury activities and notifying the Board of Directors 
of risks and opportunities associated with them
Composition and attendance
Name Position Meetings attended  
(total 8)
Keith Gaebel  Committee Chair
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
     
       
Simon Wood Non-Executive Director      
       
Aidar Ryskulov Non-Executive Director      
       
Corporate Governance report
Treasury Committee report
Keith Gaebel
Chair
Main activities during 2024 
In 2024, the Treasury Committee continued to monitor activities in 
regular reports received from the CFO, which set out details of cash 
position, deposits, loans and finance leases, and available credit 
lines. The Committee received quarterly reports on the Company’s 
placed deposits and exposure to counterparty banks, to ensure 
compliance with internal policies, and monitored liquidity levels 
through regular cash forecast updates throughout the year. During 
the year, the Committee additionally recommended that the Board 
approve several items related to existing credit lines, approval  
of amendments to the Cash Management, Bank Risk & Treasury 
Reporting Policy, investment of free cash in U.S. Treasury bills,  
an increase in the number of accredited banks, approval of credit 
limits for newly accredited banks, and the opening of new bank 
accounts. Following the Company’s IPO in February 2024, the 
Treasury Committee also recommended that the Board approve 
the repurchase of the Company’s ordinary shares and global 
depositary receipts on the secondary market, as part of the 
implementation of the Company’s Employee Incentive Plan.
In January 2025, to optimise the activities of the Board of Directors, 
it reviewed the structure of the Committees and disbanded the 
Treasury Committee, with the transfer of its functions to the 
Audit Committee.
The workscope of the Treasury Committee has been migrated 
into the Audit Committee.
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024122   123   
fulﬁlling our promises
Roles and responsibilities
The Audit Committee supports the Board of Directors in 
overseeing the Company’s financial and economic activities, 
the effectiveness of internal control and risk management 
systems, the application of the corporate governance standards, 
the independence of the external and internal audit, and 
compliance with applicable laws and regulations of the 
Republic of Kazakhstan. 
Meetings of the Audit Committee take place at least once a quarter. 
The Audit Committee is responsible for:
 ►  Overseeing the framework and effectiveness of the Company’s 
systems of risk management and internal control, compliance and 
internal audit through regular reports from the Risk Management 
Division, the Internal Control Service, the Compliance Service and 
the Internal Audit Service 
 ►  Assessing aspects of the independence of the external auditor  
and the Internal Audit Service 
 ►  Developing recommendations to the Company’s Board of Directors 
on the appointment and change of the external auditor, on 
determining the amount to be paid and on evaluating the quality  
of services rendered by the external auditor, and on receiving the 
related services from the external auditor when it is necessary 
 ►  Presenting recommendations for the Board of Directors on 
determining the number of employees, appointing (or terminating 
service) employees, defining the procedures for the work of the 
Internal Audit Service and the amount and terms of remuneration 
and incentives of the employees of the Internal Audit Service
 ►  Reviewing reports from the Company’s management and external 
auditor on material accounting matters and decisions
Detailed biographies are provided on pages 113 of all members of the 
Audit Committee. The Chairman of the Committee has extensive 
experience and expertise in financial reporting, and is considered to 
have recent and relevant financial experience. All members of the 
Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors, and the Board is 
satisfied that the Committee as a whole has the relevant financial 
experience and competence the sector the Company operates in.   
Risk management and internal control
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control system 
during the year under the auspices of the Audit Committee, as well as 
regularly reviewing and evaluating the overall risk management system 
in Air Astana. Further information on the principal risks and 
uncertainties, and mitigation measures, is available on pages 76-80 of 
this report. The Audit Committee acts in the interests of shareholders 
and provides oversight support to the Board of Directors concerning the 
effectiveness of the risk management, internal control and corporate 
governance systems.
In 2024, the Company significantly enhanced its internal controls by 
hiring a full-time internal controls expert and engaging external 
consultants for project on enhancement of internal control system. 
These additions have strengthened the Company’s ability to manage 
risk effectively and uphold the integrity of its financial processes. The 
Company remains committed to continuously testing, refining and 
improving its controls to maintain the highest standards of transparency, 
accountability and operational excellence.
Internal audit
Mission and functions
Air Astana’s IAS was created in December 2007 by a decision of the 
Board of Directors. The IAS organises and carries out internal audit 
engagements and reports directly to the Board of Directors. 
Supervision of the IAS is carried out by the Audit Committee in 
accordance with internal documents governing its activities. 
The appointment and dismissal of the IAS Head and employees is 
within the remit of the Board of Directors. 
The purpose of IAS is to strengthen Air Astana’s ability to create, 
protect and sustain value by providing the Board of Directors and the 
CEO of Air Astana with independent, risk-based and objective 
assurance, advice, insight and foresight.
Area of 
Committee focus 
Activities and actions 
Financial 
reporting
 ►  Received and reviewed reports from the external 
auditor on the results of the audit of the consolidated 
financial statements for the year ended  
31 December 2023, for the six months ended  
30 June 2024, for the nine months ended  
30 September 2024
 ►  Reviewed the financial statements of the Group to 
ensure integrity and consideration of the process 
for confirming and recommending to the Board that 
the 2024 Annual Report and Accounts was fair, 
balanced and understandable
 ►  Reviewed the external auditor’s views on significant 
accounting matters and accounting policies applied 
in the financial statements of the Group
External auditor
 ►  Determination of the auditing organisation 
performing the audit (review) of the financial 
statements for the year ending 31 December 2024 
and for the additional scope of work related to the 
issuance of a Comfort Letter for the purposes of  
the IPO
 ►  Deciding on uniting and conducting a single selection 
procedure for the selection of a single external 
auditor for the audit of financial statements of Air 
Astana JSC and FlyArystan JSC for the years 
2025-2027. Deciding on the composition of the 
Unified Commission on the selection of a single 
external auditor
 ►  Preliminary approval of the amended Procedure of 
Air Astana JSC for selection of the audit organisation
Area of 
Committee focus 
Activities and Actions 
Internal Audit 
Service (IAS)
 ► Regular reports on the activities of the IAS
 ► Performance evaluation of the IAS for 2023
 ► Changes to the 2024 Annual Audit Plan
 ►  Approval of the updated Assurance  
Map for Air Astana
 ►  Approval of the Annual Audit Plan, budget of the IAS 
and Key Performance Indicators of the IAS for 2025
 ► Changes in the Regulations of the IAS 
 ► IAS staff changes and remuneration issues
Compliance and 
ethical conduct
 ►  Termination of the authorities of the Senior 
Compliance and Sustainability Officer due to split  
of the Compliance and Sustainability department 
into two departments; Appointment of the Head  
of the Compliance Service 
 ►  Regular report on activities of Compliance Service 
including internal analysis of corruption risks
 ►  Preliminary approval of the restated Policy for 
prevention and resolution of conflicts of interest, 
including the updated Conflict of Interest Form 
 ►  Preliminary approval of the restated Sanctions Policy, 
including the updated Know Your Customer Form 
 ►  Launch of the Annual Conflict of Interest Declaration 
among Air Astana JSC employees and the Board of 
Directors
 ►  Regular reports on compliance matters that cover 
revision of compliance (corruption) risks at the 
corporate level, identification of corruption risks at 
the business process level, whistleblowing hotline, 
internal investigations, conflicts of interest, sanctions 
compliance, review and assessment of direct 
purchases, third-party due diligence procedure, 
review and assessment of candidates for positions 
of INEDs and CEO-1 level
 ►  Approval of the risk-oriented annual plan of the 
compliance function for 2024
 ►  Approval of the restated Regulation on Compliance 
Service
Risk 
management 
and internal 
control
 ► Quarterly update of risk register and risk map
 ► Quarterly reports on realised risks
 ►  Preliminary approval of the Company’s risk appetite 
and risk capacity
 ►  Introduction to the Head of Internal Controls of 
the Company 
 ►  Regular reports of the Internal Control Service on 
internal controls enhancement 
 ► IT security update 
 ►  Preliminary approval of the restated Accounting 
Policy of the Company
 ►  Preliminary approval of the restated policy on 
organisation of insurance coverage of the Company
Other matters
 ► FlyArystan JSC’s matters: annual financial statements
Corporate Governance report Audit Committee report continued 
Main activities during 2024 
s
Composition and attendance
Name Position Meetings attended  
(total 14)
Keith Gaebel  Committee Chair
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
         
         
Janet Heckman Independent Non-Executive 
Director
         
         
Yeldar 
Abdrazakov
Independent Non-Executive 
Director
         
         
Corporate Governance report
Audit Committee report
Keith Gaebel
Chair
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 125   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024124   
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Corporate Governance report
Responsibility  
statement
Other disclosures
 ► Post-balance-sheet events: Note 31 of the financial 
statement - Subsequent events states the following 
– There were no events after the reporting date that 
require separate disclosure
 ► Branches: The Group, through various subsidiaries, 
has established branches in Azerbajin, China, France, 
Germany, Georgia, India, Kyrgistan, Russia, Tajikistan, 
Turkey, UK, Ukraine and Uzbekistan in which the 
business operates 
 ► Disclosure of information to auditors: The Directors  
at the date of approval of the financial statements 
confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no 
relevant audit information of which the Company’s 
auditors are unaware, and that they have taken all 
the steps they ought to have taken as Directors to 
make themselves aware of any relevant audit 
information and to establish that the Company’s 
auditors are aware of that information
Audit process
The IAS has strengthened its professional team, continued to improve 
its internal audit processes and to keep high quality of results of 
performed internal audit engagements. The IAS adheres to an agile 
approach in planning and performing internal audit engagements, 
aiming to fulfil its responsibilities more effectively and efficiently. The 
IAS uses a risk-based approach in selecting internal audit engagements 
for the Annual Audit Plan and defining audit scope and audit procedures 
for internal audit engagements. The IAS is guided by the detailed 
Internal Audit Manual and other internal regulating documents that 
comply with the Global Internal Audit Standards. The IAS employees 
continually enhance their knowledge and skills as they believe that 
their high professional level is one of the key factors behind the IAS’s 
high-performing results.
The IAS conducted all internal audit engagements included into the 
Annual Audit Plan for 2024. In total, throughout 2024, the IAS completed 
17 internal audit engagements, including tasks related to two areas of 
continuous monitoring and two Information Technology audits. 
All performed internal audit engagements related to high priority areas, 
and five of these were performed at the request of the management. 
The IAS uses the internal audit management software TeamMate+ for 
the entire audit process which helps to increase efficiency.
Compliance with the standards
In November 2022, the IAS successfully passed an external 
independent assessment with a final result – ‘Fully conforms with the 
Code of Ethics and the Definition of Internal Audit of the Institute of 
Internal Auditors, as well as the requirements of the Standards by 100%.’
During 2024 the IAS undertook necessary steps to implement the new 
requirements of the Global Internal Audit Standards, which became 
effective in January 2025. 
External audit 
The Committee engaged regularly throughout the year with KPMG, 
the Company’s external auditor, and worked with them to review and 
approve the 2024 external audit plan and strategy, including scope, 
approach and methodology. The Committee is also responsible for the 
review of the performance and independence of the external auditor, 
and as part of this review, considered the tenure of the audit partner, 
the performance and effectiveness of the external audit, and the 
confirmations from the external auditor that appropriate challenge 
was given to the audit. Taking the above into account, the Committee 
considers that the external auditor remained objective and independent.  
KPMG was first appointed to audit the financial statements for the year 
ended 31 December 2014 for a three-year period, following which, it was 
agreed to maintain the engagement as the Company proceeded towards 
IPO. The Company undertook an audit process during the pre-IPO period, 
and KPMG remained the most suitable candidate. The current lead audit 
partner, Mukhit Kossayev, has led the audit since 2021. 
Fees for non-audit services for 2024 paid to the external auditor 
amounted to USD 36,000. Fees for work undertaken by KPMG for both 
audit and non-audit services during 2024 amounted to USD 547,000. 
The Committee also assesses the independence and objectivity of the 
external auditor through the assurances provided by the external 
auditor on the independence and matters that may challenge their 
professional judgement. KMPG confirmed that any identified threats 
to their independence have been eliminated or reduced to an 
acceptable level, including assurances that the engagement team and 
others in the firm have complied with all relevant ethical 
requirements regarding independence. To preserve objectivity and 
independence, the Company does not purchase any consulting or 
other services from the
 external auditor unless this is in compliance 
with the Company’s policy for the procurement of non-audit services 
of audit organisations. The policy also covers the approach to hiring
  
former external audit employees to avoid any conflict of interest and 
to protect external auditor independence. This policy is available to 
view on the Company’s website at airastana.com.
Priorities for 2025
The Audit Committee will continue to focus on maintaining the 
integrity and quality of financial statements and ensuring that the 
Company prepares its financial and business reports based on the 
principles of transparency and accountability, completeness and 
reliability. The Audit Committee will continue to strengthen the 
Company’s internal control, risk management and compliance 
systems, and will strive for a good information flow between all 
committees to ensure governance standards and transparency is 
maintained at the highest levels.
Corporate Governance report Audit Committee report continued
The Board of Directors, and each member of the Board of 
Directors, confirm they recognise their responsibility for 
preparing and approving the annual report and financial 
statements in accordance with applicable laws and 
regulations, and consider the annual report and financial 
statements, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and 
understandable, and to provide the information necessary for 
shareholders to assess the Company’s position, performance, 
business model and strategy.
Each member of the Board of Directors confirms that to the best  
of their knowledge: 
 ►  the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, 
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position 
and profit or loss of the Group 
 ►  the Company financial statements, prepared in accordance with 
IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial 
position and profit or loss of the Company 
 ►  the Strategic Report, included in the Annual Report, includes a fair 
review of the development and performance of the business and 
the financial position of the Group and the Company, together with 
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face 
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024126   127   
fulﬁlling our promises
Financial 
statements
Statement of management’s responsibilities 
 130
Independent auditors’ report  131
Consolidated statement of profit or loss  135
Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income  136
Consolidated statement of financial position  137
Consolidated statement of changes in equity  138
Consolidated statement of cash flows  139 
Notes to the consolidated financial statements  140
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
128   
fulﬁlling our promises
129   AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Opinion
We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Joint Stock 
Company Air Astana (the “Company”) and its subsidiary (the “Group”), 
which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as at 
31 December 2024, the consolidated statements of profit or loss, other 
comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year 
then ended, and notes, comprising material accounting policies and 
other explanatory information.
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements 
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial 
position of the Group as at 31 December 2024 and its consolidated 
financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year 
then ended in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by 
the International Accounting Standards Board (IFRS Accounting Standards).
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on 
Auditing (ISAs). Our responsibilities under those standards are further 
described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the 
Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. We are 
independent of the Group in accordance with the International Ethics 
Standards Board for Accountants International Code of Ethics for 
Professional Accountants 
(including International Independence 
Standards) (IESBA Code) together with the ethical requirements that 
are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements in 
the Republic of Kazakhstan, and we have fulfilled our other ethical 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA 
Code. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is 
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements of the current period. These matters were 
addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial 
statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we 
do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Independent auditors’ report
To the shareholders of Joint Stock Company Air Astana
The management is responsible for the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that present fairly the consolidated financial position 
of Joint Stock Company Air Astana and its subsidiary (the “Group”) as at 31 December 2024, and the results of its consolidated operations, cash 
flows and changes in equity for the year then ended in compliance with IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the International Accounting 
Standards Board (“IFRS Accounting Standards”).
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the management is responsible for:
 ► properly selecting and applying accounting policies
 ► presenting information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable 
information
 ► providing additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS Accounting Standards are insufficient to enable users 
to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Group’s financial position and financial performance; 
and
 ► making an assessment of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern
The management is also responsible for:
 ► designing, implementing and maintaining an effective and sound system of internal controls throughout the Group
 ► maintaining adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group’s transactions and disclose with reasonable 
accuracy at any time the consolidated financial position of the Group, and which enable them to ensure that the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group comply with IFRS Accounting Standards
 ► maintaining statutory accounting records in compliance with the legislation of Kazakhstan and IFRS Accounting Standards
 ► taking such steps as are reasonably available to them to safeguard the assets of the Group 
 ► preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities
 
On behalf of the management of the Group:
PETER FOSTER 
Chief Executive Officer
IBRAHIM CANLIEL
Chief Financial Officer
SAULE KHASSENOVA
Chief Accountant
Statement of management’s responsibilities 
for the preparation and approval of the 
consolidated financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2024
The recognition of the passenger revenue, including accounting for customer loyalty program provision
Please refer to Note 3, paragraph ‘Revenue’, Note 5, paragraph ‘Customer loyalty program’ in the consolidated financial statements and Notes 7, 22.
The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
The revenue of the Group is mainly represented by passenger 
revenue which is recognised when the transportation services are 
provided to customers.
In addition, the Group recognises contract liabilities for customer 
loyalty programs in its consolidated financial statements that relate 
to points granted to participants of the Nomad Club Programme.
Revenue is recognised when the points are redeemed by a 
customer and the underlying performance obligation relating to the 
redeemed points is fulfilled. The transaction price is allocated 
between the transportation service and the award provided based 
on their stand-alone selling prices.
Estimations, particularly as they relate to predicting customer 
behaviours are prone to a wider range of possible outcomes for us to 
consider.
The accounting for these loyalty programs involves significant 
judgment and estimates, particularly for estimation of the deferred 
revenue associated with the points awarded and the timing and 
amount of revenue recognition for redeemed points. Total 
passenger revenue for 2024 amounted to USD 1,246,044 thousand 
and customer loyalty program provision as at 31 December 2024 
amounted to USD 15,996 thousand.
The recognition of the passenger revenue, including the recognition 
of contract liabilities for customer loyalty programs, involves a 
significant risk of material misstatement and is, therefore, considered 
as a key audit matter in our audit, since the estimates and assumptions 
of the management have a significant effect on the recognition and 
estimation of these items, which are significant in terms of the amount.
Our approach to address the matter included, among other, the following procedures:
 ► Testing and evaluating design, implementation and operating effectiveness of internal 
controls related to revenue recognition, specifically
•  Testing controls related to transfer of data between relevant IT systems that 
management uses to recognize revenue
•  For the IT systems or processes that are outsourced to third party service providers, 
assessing assurance reports with respect to design and operating effectiveness of 
relevant controls
 ► Evaluating the design and implementation, as well as testing the operating 
effectiveness of key internal controls over the tracking and accounting of points 
awarded and redeemed within IT systems that management uses to initially accrue 
and subsequently redeem points, including controls over the estimation processes 
for deferred revenue
 ► Assessing the methodologies used by management to estimate the fair value of the 
points awarded and the expected redemption rate
 ►  Assessing the reasonableness and supportableness of the assumptions used in 
calculation of frequent flyer program liabilities
 ► Reconciling points awarded and redeemed during the year to the underlying IT 
systems. Assessing of the expected usage rate and stand-alone selling price of 
points against. historical experience, and recent trends, analysing historical 
redemption patterns and comparison with industry benchmarks
 ► Testing, on a sample basis, passenger revenue transactions by inspecting the 
supporting documents
 ► Assessing the adequacy of the disclosures against the requirements of IFRS 
Accounting Standards, including critical accounting judgments and key sources of 
estimation uncertainty
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024130   131   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2024 were authorised for issue on 13 March 2025 by the management
of the Group.
Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan
13 March 2025
Independent auditors’ report continued Independent auditors’ report continued 
The recognition of provision for aircraft under lease agreements without transfer of title
Please refer to Note 3, paragraph ‘Provisions’ and Note 23 in the consolidated financial statements.
The key audit matter How the matter was addressed in our audit
For aircraft under lease agreements without transfer of title, the Group is 
contractually committed to either return the aircraft in a specified condition 
or to compensate the lessor based on the actual condition of the aircraft 
and its major components upon return.
Provision is made for the expected cost associated with these contractual 
return conditions.
In addition, the Group is obliged to perform regular scheduled maintenance 
of aircraft under the terms of its lease agreements without transfer of title 
and regulatory requirements relating to air safety.
At each reporting date, the estimation of the maintenance provision includes 
a number of variable factors and assumptions, including the expected cost of 
maintenance activities and the time it is expected to occur; the condition of 
the aircraft; and the lifespan of components. Management has engaged an 
expert to assist in estimating the timing and cost of expected engine 
maintenance activities.
We have identified this as a key audit matter because of the inherent level  
of management judgement required in estimating the amount of provision 
and complex and subjective elements around these estimations.
In addition, the provision for aircraft under lease agreements without transfer 
of title in the amount of USD 315,135 thousand is material to the consolidated 
financial statements.
The following procedures were performed:
 ► Assessing the key assumptions adopted by management in estimating  
the provisions, as follows
• 
 Assessing the expected cost of maintenance activities against historical 
actual costs incurred and existing maintenance agreements
•  Agreeing expected cost of maintenance activities and the time it is expected 
to occur to supporting documentation
 ► Testing the classification of current and non-current parts of the provisions
 ► Assessing of the accuracy of management’s previous estimates and the 
consistency of the provisions based on analysis of historical flight hours, 
estimate of the cost of maintenance work to historic invoices
 ► Inspecting the reports provided by the management’s expert and evaluating 
the relevance and reasonableness of the expert’s findings and conclusions
 ► Assessing the knowledge, skill, and ability of the management’s expert and 
the expert’s relationship to the entity
 ► Assessing the adequacy of the disclosures in the consolidated financial 
statements against the requirements of IFRS Accounting Standards
Other information
Management is responsible for the other information. The other 
information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, 
but does not include the consolidated financial statements and our 
auditors’ report thereon. The Annual Report is expected to be made 
available to us after the date of this auditors’ report.
Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements does not cover 
the other information and we will not express any form of assurance 
conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements, 
our responsibility is to read the other information identified above 
when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the 
other information is materially inconsistent with the consolidated 
financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or 
otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
Responsibilities of management and those 
charged with governance for the consolidated 
financial statements
Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of 
the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS 
Accounting Standards, and for such internal control as management 
determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, 
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is 
responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going 
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and 
using the going concern basis of accounting unless management 
either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or has no 
realistic alternative but to do so.
Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the 
Group’s financial reporting process.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the 
consolidated financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 
consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material 
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ 
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level 
of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
with ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. 
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered 
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably  
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on  
the basis of these consolidated financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise professional 
judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. 
We also:
 ► Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the 
consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, 
design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,  
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to 
provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control
 ► Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit  
in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the 
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion  
on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control
 ► Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the 
reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures 
made by management
 ► Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going 
concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence 
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to 
continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material 
uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our 
auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the consolidated 
financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate,  
to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit 
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, 
future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to 
continue as a going concern
 ► Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the 
consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and 
whether the consolidated financial statements represent the 
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair 
presentation
 ► Plan and perform the Group audit to obtain sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or 
business units within the Group as a basis for forming an opinion 
on the Group financial statements. We are responsible for the 
direction, supervision and review of the audit work performed for 
purposes of the Group audit. We remain solely responsible for our 
audit opinion
We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, 
among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and 
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in 
internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we 
have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, 
and communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may 
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, 
actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, 
we determine those matters that were of most significance in the 
audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and 
are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our 
auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we 
determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report 
because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be 
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such 
communication.
The engagement partner on the audit resulting in this independent 
auditors’ report is:
Mukhit Kossayev  
Certified Auditor 
of the Republic of Kazakhstan 
Auditor’s Qualification Certificate 
No. 558 of 24 December 2003
KPMG Audit LLC
State License to conduct audit #0000021 
dated 6 December 2006 issued by the 
Ministry of Finance of the Republic 
of Kazakhstan
Sergey Dementyev
General Director of KPMG Audit LLC 
acting on the basis of the Charter 
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024132   133   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
13 March 2025
’000 USD Notes 2024 2023
Revenue and other income
Passenger revenue 7 1,246,044 1,143,596
Cargo and mail revenue 7 26,303 22,519
Gain from sale and leaseback transaction 7 25,016 -
Other income 7 11,785 8,399
Total revenue and other income 1,309,148 1,174,514
Operating expenses
Fuel and oil costs (305,183) (279,172)
Employee and crew costs 8 (226,659) (193,067)
Depreciation and amortisation 12 (189,171) (162,011)
Handling, landing fees and route charges 8 (120,485) (105,727)
Passenger service 8 (118,677) (101,136)
Engineering and maintenance 8 (117,874) (108,180)
Selling costs 8 (44,180) (40,431)
Insurance (12,801) (10,981)
Consultancy, legal and professional services (8,412) (5,729)
IT and communication costs (6,831) (6,538)
Aircraft lease costs (5,216) (2,217)
Property and office costs (4,675) (3,865)
Taxes (4,361) (3,920)
Impairment loss on trade receivables (74) (124)
Other operating costs (14,543) (15,435)
Total operating expenses (1,179,142) (1,038,533)
Operating profit 130,006 135,981
Finance income 9 22,079 14,806
Finance costs 9 (64,656) (49,892)
Foreign exchange loss, net (20,743) (13,803)
Profit before tax 66,686 87,092
Income tax expense 10 (13,910) (18,387)
Profit for the year 52,776 68,705
Basic and diluted earnings per share (in USD) 1 20 0.151 0.225
The consolidated statement of profit or loss is to be read in conjunction with the notes to, and forming part of, the consolidated financial 
statements set out on pages 140-179.
1 Basic and diluted earnings per share have been retrospectively recalculated to reflect the updated num ber of shares issued.
On behalf of the Group’s management:
Peter Foster 
Chief Executive Officer
Ibrahim Canliel
Chief Financial Officer
Saule Khassenova
Chief Accountant
Consolidated statement of profit or loss
for the year ended 31 December 2024
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024134   135   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Almaty, Republic of Kazakhstan
13 March 2025
’000 USD Notes
31 December
2024
31 December
2023
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 11 1,063,284 853,320
Intangible assets 6,018 2,836
Prepayments 15 19,591 18,451
Guarantee deposits 13 38,695 33,302
Deferred tax assets 10 48,603 37,040
Trade and other receivables 16 630 1,343
1,176,821 946,292
Current assets
Inventories 14 66,129 67,548
Prepayments 15 30,290 24,825
Income tax prepaid 12,999 13,259
Trade and other receivables 16 20,801 23,525
Other taxes prepaid 17 13,792 10,247
Guarantee deposits 13 3,239 1,979
Cash and cash equivalents 18 488,702 274,006
Other financial assets 19 302 763
636,254 416,152
Total assets 1,813,075 1,362,444
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 20 138,112 17,000
Functional currency transition reserve (9,324) (9,324)
Other reserves 3,009 -
Treasury share (8,240) -
Reserve on hedging instruments, net of tax (5,775) (16,292)
Retained earnings 276,748 221,975
Total equity 394,530 213,359
Non-current liabilities
Loans 521 -
Lease liabilities 25 716,775 543,896
Provision for aircraft maintenance 23 289,866 148,618
Employee benefits 818 623
1,007,980 693,137
Current liabilities
Loans 56 412
Lease liabilities 25 171,886 174,997
Deferred revenue 22 89,801 84,368
Provision for aircraft maintenance 23 25,269 105,170
Trade and other payables 24 123,553 91,001
410,565 455,948
Total liabilities 1,418,545 1,149,085
Total equity and liabilities 1,813,075 1,362,444
Book value per ordinary share (in USD) 1 20 1.104 12,383.706
The number of ordinary shares used in calculation as at 31 December 2024 and 31 December 2023 was 351,887,760 and 17,000 respectively.
The consolidated statement of financial position is to be read in conjunction with the notes to, and forming part of, the consolidated financial 
statements set out on pages 140-179.
1 Disclosure of the book value per common share is no t covered by IFRS and is disclosed upon request and in accordance with the rules of KASE.
Consolidated statement of financial position 
as at 31 December 2024
’000 USD Notes 2024 2023
Profit for the year 52,776 68,705
Other comprehensive income to be reclassified into profit or loss in subsequent periods:
Cash flow hedges – effective portion of changes in fair value 19 433 (1,025)
Corporate income tax related to cash flow hedges – effective portion of chan ges in fair value (87) 205
Realised net loss from cash flow hedging instruments 25 12,714 12,408
Corporate income tax related to loss from hedging instruments 25 (2,543) (2,482)
Other comprehensive income for the year, net of inco me tax 10,517 9,106
Total comprehensive income for the year 63,293 77,811
The consolidated statement of other comprehensive income is to be read in conjunction with the notes to, and forming part of, the consolidated 
financial statements set out on pages 140-179.
Consolidated statement of other 
comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 December 2024
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024136   137   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
’000 USD Notes 2024 2023
OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
Profit before tax 66,686 87,092
Adjustments for:
Depreciation and amortisation of property, plant and equipment and in tangible assets 12 189,171 162,011
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and other assets and from sa les and 
leaseback transaction 7 (25,733) (3,499)
Change in impairment allowance for trade receivables, prepayments , guarantee deposits and 
cash and cash equivalents 13,15, 16,18 (1,150) (76)
Write-down of obsolete and slow-moving inventories 14 353 (621)
Change in vacation accrual 24 1,176 (316)
Accrual of provision for aircraft maintenance 8 95,299 85,830
Change in customer loyalty program provision 22 4,068 2,774
Foreign exchange loss, net 20,743 13,803
Finance income 9 (21,782) (14,321)
Finance costs 9 64,592 49,462
Gain from early return of aircraft 25 (2,875) -
Equity-settled share-based payment 6,109 -
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital 396,657 382,139
Change in trade and other receivables (1,794) (831)
Change in prepaid expenses and prepayments (10,201) (5,625)
Change in inventories 1,638 (16,787)
Change in trade and other payables and provision for aircraft maintenan ce (17,838) (17,993)
Change in deferred revenue 3,415 1,442
Change in other financial instruments 893 (129)
Cash generated from operations 372,770 342,216
Income tax paid (26,667) (42,839)
Interest received 21,743 14,081
Net cash generated from operating activities 367,846 313,458
INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (97,948) (41,777)
Proceed from sale and leaseback transaction 90,500 -
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 2,734 4,980
Purchase of intangible assets (3,687) (2,116)
Guarantee deposits placed (12,723) (9,979)
Guarantee deposits withdrawn 3,044 2,876
Net cash used in investing activities (18,080) (46,016)
FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
Repayment of lease liabilities 25 (190,331) (173,302) 
Interest paid 25 (54,431) (42,717)
Repayment of borrowings and additional financing from sale and leaseba ck 25 (38,442) (46,640)
Proceeds from borrowings and additional financing from sale and lease back 25 38,193 35,000
Repurchase of treasury shares (8,240) -
Proceeds from share issuance 20 121,112 -
Dividends paid 20 - (16,776)
Net cash used in financing activities (132,139) (244,435)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 217,627 23,007
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents held in foreign cu rrencies (2,876) (1,888)
Effects of movements in ECL on cash and cash equivalents (2) (1)
Foreign currency translation (53) -
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, at the beginning of the year 274,006 252,888
Cash and cash equivalents, at the end of the year 18 488,702 274,006
The consolidated statement of cash flows is to be read in conjunction with the notes to, and forming part of, the consolidated financial 
statements set out on pages 140-179.
Consolidated statement of cash flows
for the year ended 31 December 2024 
’000 USD
Share  
capital
Treasury 
shares
Other 
reserves
Functional 
currency 
translation 
reserve
Reserve on 
hedging 
instruments
Retained  
earnings Total equity
At 1 January 2023 17,000 - - (9,324) (25,398) 169,990 152,268
Profit for the year - - - - - 68,705 68,705
Other comprehensive income: Realised loss on 
cash flow hedging instruments and effective 
portion of changes in fair value of fuel call 
options, net of tax - - - - 9,106 - 9,106
Total comprehensive income for the year - - - - 9,106 68,705 77,811
Dividends declared - - - - - (16,776) (16,776)
Other - - - - - 56 56
At 31 December 2023 17,000 - - (9,324) (16,292) 221,975 213,359
At 1 January 2024 17,000 - - (9,324) (16,292) 221,975 213,359
Profit for the year - - - - - 52,776 52,776
Other comprehensive income: Realised loss on 
cash flow hedging instruments and effective 
portion of changes in fair value of fuel call 
options, net of tax - - - - 10,517 - 10,517
Total comprehensive income for the year - - - - 10,517 52,776 63,293
Issue of shares 121,112 - - - - - 121,112
Issue costs - - (3,100) - - - (3,100)
Treasury shares - (8,240) - - - - (8,240)
Other changes - - - - - 1,997 1,997
Equity-settled share-based programme - - 6,109 - - 6,109
At 31 December 2024 138,112 (8,240) 3,009 (9,324) (5,775) 276,748 394,530
The consolidated statement of changes in equity is to be read in conjunction with the notes to, and forming part of, the consolidated financial 
statements set out on pages 140-179.
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 
for the year ended 31 December 2024
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024138   139   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
1. Nature of activities
Joint Stock Company Air Astana is a joint stock company (the 
“Company”) as defined in the Civil Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
The Company was established as a closed joint stock company on 14 
September 2001 by Resolution of the Government of the Republic of 
Kazakhstan #1118 dated 29 August 2001. Due to a change in 
legislation introduced in 2003, the Parent Company was re-registered 
as a joint stock company on 27 May 2005.
The Company has a subsidiary JSC “FlyArystan” (formerly JSC “Aviation 
Company “Air Kazakhstan”) (hereinafter – the “Subsidiary”) which was 
acquired in November 2019 by purchasing one hundred percent of the 
shares and voting interests. Together the Company and the Subsidiary  
are referred to as the “Group”.
The operations of Subsidiary commenced in October 2023. From 
December 2023 to December 2024, JSC “FlyArystan” issued 
additionally 3,780,000 shares in favour of the Company. The total 
additional investment amounted to KZT 15,120,000 thousand (USD 
32,268 thousand).
The Group’s principal activity is the provision of scheduled domestic 
and international air services for passengers. Other business activities 
include freight and mail transportation.
As at 31 December 2024 and 31 December 2023, the Group operated 
57 and 49 turbojet aircrafts, respectively.
On 15 February 2024, the Company completed its initial public offering 
(“IPO”), raising KZT 54,256,673 thousand (USD 121,111 thousand). The 
Company listed simultaneously on three exchanges: Kazakhstan Stock 
Exchange, Astana International Exchange, and London Stock Exchange. 
In addition to the primary offering, existing shareholders JSC “National 
Welfare Fund “Samruk-Kazyna”, and BAE Systems Kazakhstan Limited 
both sold their shares (or GDRs representing shares), reducing their 
shareholdings to 41% and 16.95%, respectively. Other shareholders 
had less than 10% of shares post-IPO.
2. Basis of accounting
Statement of compliance
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in 
accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the 
International Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS Accounting 
Standards”).
Functional and presentation currency
The national currency of Kazakhstan is the Kazakhstani Tenge 
(“Tenge”), which until 31 December 2017 was the Company’s 
functional currency, because it reflected the economic substance of 
the underlying events and circumstances of the Company.
During 2017, the management reassessed the indicators of the 
Company’s functional currency, with particular focus on the Company’s 
increasing international flight operations, and noted that an increasing 
part of the Company’s operations are influenced by currencies other 
than Tenge; predominantly the US Dollar. As a result, the 
management concluded that with effect from 31 December 2017 (the 
transition date, for the purpose of the financial reporting under IFRS 
Accounting Standards), that the Company’s functional currency is the 
US Dollar.
As requested by shareholders, in addition to the consolidated financial 
statements presented in the Company’s functional currency, US Dollar 
(“USD”), the Group also issues the consolidated financial statements in 
Kazakhstani Tenge, which is a presentation currency for the Company 
as  shareholders believe that both currencies are useful for the users 
of the Group’s consolidated financial statements. These consolidated 
financial statements have been presented in USD for the year ended 
31 December 2024. All financial information presented in USD has 
been rounded to the nearest thousand, so minor discrepancies may 
arise from addition of these amounts.
Notes to the consolidated financial 
statements
3. Material accounting policies
Basis of preparation
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the 
historical cost basis except for certain financial instruments that are 
measured at fair value, as explained in the accounting policies below. 
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration 
given in exchange for assets on the date of acquisition. The Group 
discloses other comprehensive income separately from its 
consolidated statement of profit or loss. The principal accounting 
policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods 
presented in these consolidated financial statements.
Basis of consolidation
(i) Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method 
as at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is 
transferred to the Group.
(ii) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls 
an entity when it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from 
its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those 
returns through its power over the entity.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the 
consolidated financial statements from the date that control 
commences until the date that control ceases. The accounting policies 
of subsidiaries have been changed when necessary to align them 
with the policies adopted by the Group.
Segment information
There are two main operating segments of the Group, full-service 
brand Air Astana and low-cost brand FlyArystan; these include 
information for the determination of performance evaluation and 
allocation of resources by the management. The Group management 
uses the operating profit calculated according to IFRS Accounting 
Standards while evaluating the performance of the segments 
adjusted for the impact of inter-segment leases.
Revenue
Passenger revenue
The Group satisfies the performance obligations related to tickets sold 
and reports the sales as revenue when the transportation service 
performance obligation has been satisfied. The value of tickets sold 
and still valid but not used by the reporting date is reported as 
deferred (unearned) transportation revenue. This item is reduced 
either when the Group satisfies the performance obligation by 
completing the transportation service or when the passenger 
requests a refund. Based on historical data of previous years, the 
Group recognises passenger revenue in proportion to the pattern of 
rights exercised by the customer in respect of a percentage of tickets 
sold that are expected not to be used or refunded. 
The Group conducts sales through agents that act as intermediaries 
distributing tickets among customers. On average, accounts receivable 
are collected within a month from origination. The Group’s sales do 
not contain significant finance components due to the short-term 
nature of airline tickets.
Passenger revenue includes revenue from code-share agreements 
with other airlines. Under these agreements, the Group sells seats on 
these airlines’ flights and those other airlines sell seats on the Group’s 
flights. Revenue from the sale of code-share seats on other airlines 
are recorded net in the Group’s passenger revenue in profit or loss, 
since the Group acts as an agent in these agreements. The revenue 
from other airlines’ sale of code-share seats on the Group’s flights is 
recorded in passenger revenue in profit or loss.
Revenue related to airport charges, such as fees and taxes, are 
presented gross of the related costs. This is due to the fact that the 
Group is exposed to changes in the actual costs, and these costs are 
assessed by the Group based on the volume of its operations, such 
that the Group acts as a principal in the transactions, not as an agent. 
Cargo revenue 
Cargo transport services are recognised as revenue at the time of sale 
due to the short-term nature of the contracts.
Customer loyalty programme
Sales of tickets that result in award credits for customers, under the 
Group’s Nomad Club Loyalty Programme, are accounted for as two 
separate performance obligations embedded into one contract, the 
ticket. The transaction price is allocated between the transportation 
service and the award provided based on their stand-alone selling 
prices. The transaction price of credit award is not recognised as 
revenue at the time of the initial sale transaction but is deferred and 
recognised as revenue when the award credits are redeemed and the 
Group’s performance obligations have been fulfilled.
Travel agents’ commissions
Travel agents’ commissions are recognised as an expense when the 
transportation service is provided.
Reservation costs
Reservation costs are recognised as an expense when incurred since 
the amortisation period of the asset that the Group otherwise would 
have recognised is less than a year. 
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024140   141   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
3. Material accounting policies continued
Leasing
At inception of a contract, the Group assesses whether a contract is, 
or contains, a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract 
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period 
of time in exchange for a consideration. To assess whether a contract 
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group 
uses the definition of a lease in IFRS 16.
(i) As a lessee
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the 
lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured 
at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability 
adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement 
date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to 
dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying 
asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received.
The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-
line method from the commencement date to the end of the lease 
term, unless the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset to 
the Group by the end of the lease term or the cost of the right-of-use 
asset reflects that the Group will exercise a purchase option. In that 
case the right-of-use asset will be depreciated over the useful life of 
the underlying asset, which is determined on the same basis as those 
of property and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use asset is 
periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for 
certain re-measurements of the lease liability.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease 
payments that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted 
using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be 
readily determined, and the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. Generally, 
the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate.
The Group determines its incremental borrowing rate by obtaining 
interest rates from various external financing sources and makes 
certain adjustments to reflect the terms of the lease and type of the 
asset leased.
 Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability 
comprise the following:
 ► fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments
 ► variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially 
measured using the index or rate as at the commencement date
 ► amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee
 ► the exercise price under a purchase option that the Group is 
reasonably certain to exercise, lease payments in an optional 
renewal period if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise an 
extension option, and penalties for early termination of a lease 
unless the Group is reasonably certain not to terminate early
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective 
interest method. It is re-measured when there is a change in future 
lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a 
change in the Group’s estimate of the amount expected to be payable 
under a residual value guarantee, if the Group changes its assessment 
of whether it will exercise a purchase, extension or termination option 
or if there is a revised in-substance fixed lease payment.
When the lease liability is re-measured in this way, a corresponding 
adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, 
or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-
use asset has been reduced to zero.
The Group presents right-of-use assets in ‘property, plant and 
equipment’ and lease liabilities separately in the consolidated 
statement of financial position.
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease 
liabilities for leases of low-value assets and short-term leases. The 
Group recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as 
an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
(ii) Sale and leaseback transactions
If the Group transfers an asset to another entity and leases that asset 
back from this same entity, the Group accounts for the transfer 
contract and the lease according to IFRS 16 Leases. 
The Group applies the requirements for determining when a 
performance obligation is satisfied in IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts 
with customers to determine whether the transfer of an asset is 
accounted for as a sale of that asset.
If the transfer of an asset by the Group satisfies the requirements of 
IFRS 15 to be accounted for as a sale of the asset the Group measures 
the right-of-use asset arising from the leaseback at the proportion of 
the previous carrying amount of the asset that relates to the right of 
use retained by the Group. Accordingly, the Group recognises only the 
amount of any gain or loss that relates to the rights transferred to the 
buyer-lessor. If the fair value of the consideration for the sale of an 
asset does not equal the fair value of the asset, or if the payments for 
the lease are not at market rates, the Group makes the following 
adjustments to measure the sale proceeds at fair value:
(a)
  any below-market terms shall be accounted for as a prepayment 
of lease payments; and 
(b)  any above-market terms shall be accounted for as additional 
financing provided by the buyer- lessor to the seller-lessee.
3. Material accounting policies continued
Guarantee deposits
Guarantee deposits represent amounts paid to the lessors of aircraft, which are held as security deposits by the lessors in accordance with the 
provisions of lease agreements without transfer of title. These deposits are returned to the Group at the end of the lease period. Lease deposits 
relating to the lease agreements without transfer of title are presented as assets in the consolidated statement of financial position. At initial 
recognition the Group recognises a discount and a deferred asset (additional lease payment) simultaneously. The discount is amortised over the 
lease term using the effective interest method, and the deferred asset is amortised by equal amounts over the lease term.
Foreign currencies
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of the Group entities (foreign 
currencies) are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items 
denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items that are measured at historical cost 
in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
The following table summarises US Dollar exchange rates at 31 December 2024 and 31 December 2023 and for the years then ended:
Average rate Reporting date spot-rate
USD 2024 2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
1,000 Tenge (KZT) 2.13 2.19 1.9 2.20
Euro (EUR) 1.08 1.08 1.04 1.10
British Pound (GBP) 1.28 1.24 1.25 1.27
The following table summarises KZT exchange rates at 31 December 2024 and 31 December 2023 and for the years then ended:
Average rate Reporting date spot-rate
KZT 2024 2023
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
US Dollar (USD) 469.44 456.31 525.11 454.56
Euro (EUR) 507.86 493.33 546.74 502.24
British Pound (GBP) 600.27 567.3 658.91 577.47
Finance income and costs
Finance income comprises interest income on bank deposits and gain on financial instruments through profit and loss. Interest income from a 
financial asset is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of income can be measured 
reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the carrying value and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the 
rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount on 
initial recognition.
Finance costs comprise interest expense, bank commissions, losses on financial instruments through profit and loss and other costs. Borrowing 
costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial 
period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until those assets are substantially ready for 
their intended use or sale. All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets is deducted from 
the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
Employee benefits
Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided. A 
provision is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under cash bonus or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or 
constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024142   143   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continuedNotes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
3. Material accounting policies continued
Taxation
Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable, 
tax paid for the current period and deferred tax. The tax currently 
payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs 
from profit as reported in the profit or loss because it excludes items 
of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years 
and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The 
Group’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the 
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated 
financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the 
computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are general ly 
recognised for all taxable temporary differences, and deferred tax 
assets are generally recognised for all deductible temporary 
differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will 
be available against which those deductible temporary differences 
can be realised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the 
temporary difference arises in a transaction that affects neither the 
taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each 
reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable 
that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of 
the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that 
are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or 
the asset recognised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have 
been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. The 
measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax 
consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group 
expects, at the reporting date, to recover or settle the carrying 
amount of its assets and liabilities.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally 
enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax 
liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same 
taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax 
assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Current and deferred taxes are recognised in profit or loss, except 
when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive 
income or directly in equity, in which case the current and deferred 
taxes are also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly 
in equity, respectively.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment held for use in the supply of services, 
or for administrative purposes, are stated in the consolidated 
statement of financial position at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and impairment losses.
The financial interest attributed to pre-delivery payments made on 
account of aircraft and other significant assets under construction is 
capitalised and added to the cost of the asset concerned.
Maintenance costs are recorded as expenses during the period when 
incurred, with the exception of programmes that extend the useful 
life of the asset or increase its value, which are then capitalised (e.g. 
maintenance on airframes and engines).
Aircraft
The purchase price of aircraft is denominated in US dollar.
Aircraft are depreciated using a straight-line method over their 
average estimated useful life of 25 years or over the lease terms, if 
the lease term is shorter than the 25-year period, assuming no 
residual value. During the operating cycle, the Group reviews whether 
the depreciable base or the useful life should be adjusted and, if 
necessary, determines whether a residual value should be recognised.
Repairs for major airframes and engines of all aircraft are treated as a 
separate asset component with the cost capitalised and depreciated 
over the period between the date of acquisition and the next major 
overhaul.
Major overhaul expenditure, including replacement spares and labour 
costs, are capitalised and amortised over the average expected life 
between major overhauls based on flight hours and cycles.
All other replacement spares and other costs relating to maintenance 
of an aircraft are charged to profit or loss upon consumption or as 
incurred, respectively.
Rotable spare parts
Rotable spare parts are carried in property, plant and equipment.
The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment 
is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that 
the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to 
the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The costs of the 
day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised 
in profit or loss as incurred.
3. Material accounting policies continued
Other property, plant and equipment
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the 
acquisition of the asset. The cost of self-constructed assets includes 
the cost of materials and direct labour, any other costs directly 
attributable to bringing the asset to a working condition for its 
intended use, and the costs of dismantling and removing the items 
and restoring the site on which they are located. Purchased software 
that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is 
capitalised as part of that equipment.
Depreciation
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over 
the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of property, plant 
and equipment.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are 
as follows:
 Aircraft (excluding separate asset components) 25 years
 Buildings and premises  14-50 years
 Rotable spare parts   3-15 years
 Office and training equipment 4-20 years
Vehicles 7-9 years
Other  2-10 years
Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost of assets (other 
than freehold land, properties under construction and separate asset 
component of the aircraft) less their residual values over their useful 
lives, using the straight-line method. Separate asset component of an 
aircraft is amortised over the average expected life between major 
overhauls which is based on flight hours or cycles.
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method 
are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of 
any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.
An item of property, plant and equipment is de-recognised upon 
disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise 
from the continued use of the asset. Any gain or loss arising on the 
disposal or retirement of an item of property, plant and equipment is 
determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the 
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss.
Intangible assets
Intangible assets acquired separately are reported at cost less 
accumulated amortisation and impairment losses. Amortisation is 
charged on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the 
assets. The estimated useful lives are reviewed at the end of each 
annual reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate 
being accounted for on a prospective basis. The estimated useful 
economic life of software for the current and comparative periods is 
from 7 to 10 years.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets
At each reporting date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its 
tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any 
indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any 
such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is 
estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if 
any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of 
an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of 
the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Where a 
reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, 
corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash-generating units, 
or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of Cash- 
Generating Units (CGU) for which a reasonable and consistent 
allocation basis can be identified.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and 
value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash 
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount 
rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of 
money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of 
future cash flows have not been adjusted. The Group identifies the 
recoverable amount as value in use of a CGU. 
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is 
estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of 
the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable 
amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or 
loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in 
which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying 
amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the 
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased 
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would 
have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for 
the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an 
impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Contingent liabilities and contingent assets
Contingent liabilities are not recognised in the consolidated financial 
statements. They are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated 
financial statements, unless the possibility of an outflow of resources 
embodying economic benefits is remote.
Contingent assets are not recognised in the consolidated financial 
statements. Where an inflow of economic benefits is probable, they 
are disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024144   145   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continuedNotes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
3. Material accounting policies continued
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. 
Costs of inventories are determined on a first-in-first-out basis, except 
for fuel and de-icing liquid, which are determined on the weighted 
average cost basis. Fuel and de-icing liquid are written off upon actual 
consumption. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling 
price for inventories less all estimated costs of completion and costs 
necessary to make the sale.
Expenditures incurred in acquiring the inventories such as customs 
duties, freight and brokers’ services are accumulated into a separate 
inventory account and allocated depending on use of relevant inventory.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation 
(legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that 
the Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable 
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the 
consideration required to settle the present obligation at the reporting 
date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the 
obligation. Where a provision is measured using the cash flows 
estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the 
present value of those cash flows.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a 
provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, the 
receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that 
reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can 
be measured reliably.
Provision for aircraft maintenance under lease agreement without 
transfer of title
The Group is obligated to perform regular scheduled maintenance of 
aircraft under the terms of its lease agreements without transfer of 
title and regulatory requirements relating to air safety. The lease 
agreements also require the Group to return aircraft to lessors in a 
satisfactory condition at the end of the lease term, which may require 
the performance of final return conditions. The Group’s scheduled 
aircraft maintenance programmes carried out through the lease 
periods are designed to reduce the incidence of final return costs. 
Major aircraft maintenance relates to airframes (referred to as the 
C-check, D-check and redelivery preparation programme) and 
engines. The C-check is heavy maintenance with approved 
performance intervals. It takes place at the earliest of every 6,000 – 
12,000 flight hours, 3,000 – 8,000 flight cycles and 18-36 months 
according to aircraft type.
The D-check (4С, 6YR, 12YR) is heavy maintenance connected with 
deep aircraft disassembly, structure inspection and anti corrosion 
prevention programme. It takes place with an interval of not more 
than 72 months. Engine overhaul occurs after specified flight hours or 
cycles occur. Some of the lease agreements without transfer of title 
include a component of variable lease payments which is generally 
reimbursable to the Group by lessors as a contribution to engine 
maintenance costs after they are incurred.
The variable lease payments are recognised as an expense in profit or 
loss as incurred. In the case of other lease agreements without 
transfer of title variable lease payments are replaced (subject to 
certain conditions) by Letters of Credit as security for Lessors to cover 
any unfulfilled maintenance liabilities on the return of the aircraft, and 
amounts corresponding to the applicable variable lease amounts are 
included in provisions. For C-check maintenance, a provision is 
recorded on a progressive basis based upon the Group’s estimate of 
future maintenance costs. For engine maintenance, a provision is 
recorded on a progressive basis based on the Group’s estimate of the 
excess of maintenance costs over the amount reimbursable by the 
lessors. The Group’s aircraft maintenance liabilities are due in US 
Dollars. Maintenance costs are presented net of expected compensations.
Overhaul and restoration works (not depending on aircraft utilisation)
Costs resulting from restoration work required to be performed just 
before returning aircraft to the lessors, such as painting of the shell or 
aircraft overhaul are recognised as provisions as of the inception of 
the contract. The counterpart of these provisions is booked as a 
complement through the initial book value of the aircraft right-of-use 
assets. This complement to the right-of-use asset is depreciated over 
the lease term.
Financial instruments
Recognition and initial measurement
Trade receivables are initially recognised when they are originated. All 
other financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised 
when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the 
instrument.
A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without a significant 
financing component) or financial liability is initially measured at fair 
value plus, for an item not at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL), 
transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or 
issue. A trade receivable without a significant financing component is 
initially measured at the transaction price.
3. Material accounting policies continued
On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as measured at: 
amortised cost; fair value through other comprehensive income 
(FVOCI) – debt investment; FVOCI – equity investment; or FVTPL.
Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their initial 
recognition unless the Group changes its business model for 
managing financial assets, in which case all affected financial assets 
are reclassified on the first day of the first reporting period following 
the change in the business model. 
A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if it meets both of the 
following conditions and is not designated as at FVTPL:
 ► it is held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets 
to collect contractual cash flows; and
 ► its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that 
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding
A debt investment is measured at FVOCI if it meets both of the 
following conditions and is not designated as at FVTPL:
 ►  it is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by 
both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets 
 ► its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that 
are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding
On initial recognition of an equity investment that is not held for 
trading, the Group may irrevocably elect to present subsequent 
changes in the investment’s fair value in OCI. This election is made on 
an investment-by-investment basis.
All financial assets not classified as measured at amortised cost or 
FVOCI as described above are measured at FVTPL. This includes all 
derivative financial assets. On initial recognition, the Group may 
irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets the 
requirements to be measured at amortised cost or at FVOCI as at 
FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting 
mismatch that would otherwise arise.
Financial assets – business model assessment
The Group makes an assessment of the objective of the business 
model in which a financial asset is held at a portfolio level, because 
this best reflects the way the business is managed and information is 
provided to the management. The information considered includes:
 ► the stated policies and objectives for the portfolio and the 
operation of those policies in practice. These include whether the 
management’s strategy focuses on earning contractual interest 
income, maintaining a particular interest rate profile, matching the 
duration of the financial assets to the duration of any related 
liabilities or expected cash outflows or realising cash flows through 
the sale of the assets
 ► how the performance of the portfolio is evaluated and reported to 
the Group’s management
 ► the risks that affect the performance of the business model (and 
the financial assets held within that business model) and how 
those risks are managed
 ► how managers of the business are compensated – e.g. whether 
compensation is based on the fair value of the assets managed or 
the contractual cash flows collected
 ► the frequency, volume and timing of sales of financial assets in 
prior periods, the reasons for such sales and expectations about 
future sales activity
Transfers of financial assets to third parties in transactions that do not 
qualify for de-recognition are not considered sales for this purpose, 
consistent with the Group’s continuing recognition of the assets.
Financial assets that are held for trading or are managed and whose 
performance is evaluated on a fair value basis are measured at FVTPL.
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024146   147   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continuedNotes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
3. Material accounting policies continued
Financial assets – assessment whether contractual cash flows 
are solely payments of principal and interest
For the purposes of this assessment, ‘principal’ is defined as the fair 
value of the financial asset on initial recognition. ‘Interest’ is defined 
as consideration for the time value of money and for the credit risk 
associated with the principal amount outstanding during a particular 
period of time and for other basic lending risks and costs (e.g. liquidity 
risk and administrative costs), as well as a profit margin.
In assessing whether the contractual cash flows are solely payments 
of principal and interest, the Group considers the contractual terms of 
the instrument. This includes assessing whether the financial asset 
contains a contractual term that could change the timing or amount of 
contractual cash flows such that it would not meet this condition. In 
making this assessment, the Group considers:
 ► contingent events that would change the amount or timing of cash 
flows
 ► terms that may adjust the contractual coupon rate, including 
variable-rate features
 ► prepayment and extension features
 ►  terms that limit the Group’s claim to cash flows from specified 
assets (e.g. non-recourse features).
A prepayment feature is consistent with the solely payments of 
principal and interest criterion if the prepayment amount substantially 
represents unpaid amounts of principal and interest on the principal 
amount outstanding, which may include reasonable additional 
compensation for early termination of the contract. Additionally, for a 
financial asset acquired at a discount or premium to its contractual par 
amount, a feature that permits or requires prepayment at an amount 
that substantially represents the contractual par amount plus accrued 
(but unpaid) contractual interest (which may also include reasonable 
additional compensation for early termination) is treated as consistent 
with this criterion if the fair value of the prepayment feature is 
insignificant at initial recognition.
3. Material accounting policies continued
The Group concludes that the modification is substantial as a result of 
the following qualitative factors:
 ► change the currency of the financial asset
 ► change in collateral or other credit enhancement
If the cash flows of the modified asset carried at amortised cost are not 
substantially different, then the modification does not result in de-
recognition of the financial asset. In this case, the Group recalculates the 
gross carrying amount of the financial asset and recognises the amount 
arising from adjusting the gross carrying amount as a modification gain or 
loss in profit or loss. The gross carrying amount of the financial asset is 
recalculated as the present value of the renegotiated or modified 
contractual cash flows that are discounted at the financial asset’s original 
effective interest rate. Any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying 
amount of the modified financial asset and are amortised over the 
remaining term of the modified financial asset.
Financial liabilities
The Group de-recognises a financial liability when its terms are 
modified and the cash flows of the modified liability are substantially 
different. In this case, a new financial liability based on the modified 
terms is recognised at fair value. The difference between the carrying 
amount of the financial liability extinguished and the new financial 
liability with modified terms is recognised in profit or loss.
If a modification (or exchange) does not result in the de-recognition of 
the financial liability the Group applies an accounting policy consistent 
with the requirements for adjusting the gross carrying amount of a 
financial asset when a modification does not result in the de-
recognition of the financial asset, i.e. the Group recognises any 
adjustment to the amortised cost of the financial liability arising from 
such a modification (or exchange) in profit or loss at the date of the 
modification (or exchange).
Changes in cash flows on existing financial liabilities are not 
considered as modification, if they result from existing contractual 
terms, e.g. changes in fixed interest rates initiated by banks due to 
changes in the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), National 
Bank of Kazakhstan rates (NBRK) and other key rates. The Group 
treats the modification of an interest rate to a current market rate 
using the guidance on variable-rate financial instruments. This means 
that the effective interest rate is adjusted prospectively.
The Group performs a quantitative and qualitative evaluation of 
whether the modification is substantial considering qualitative factors, 
quantitative factors and combined effect of qualitative and 
quantitative factors. The Group concludes that the modification is 
substantial as a result of the following qualitative factors:
 ► change in the currency of the financial liability
 ► change in collateral or other credit enhancement
 ► inclusion of conversion option
 ► change in the subordination of the financial liability
For the quantitative assessment the terms are substantially different if 
the discounted present value of the cash flows under the new terms, 
including any fees paid net of any fees received and discounted using 
the original effective interest rate, is at least 10% different from the 
discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of the original 
financial liability. If an exchange of debt instruments or modification 
of terms is accounted for as an extinguishment, any costs or fees 
incurred are recognised as part of the gain or loss on the extinguishment. 
If the exchange or modification is not accounted for as an 
extinguishment, any costs or fees incurred adjust the carrying amount 
of the liability and are amortised over the remaining term of the 
modified liability.
De-recognition
Financial assets
The Group de-recognises a financial asset when the contractual rights 
to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, or it transfers the 
rights to receive the contractual cash flows in a transaction in which 
substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial 
asset are transferred or in which the Group neither transfers nor 
retains substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership and it 
does not retain control of the financial asset.
The Group enters into transactions whereby it transfers assets 
recognised in its consolidated statement of financial position, but 
retains either all or substantially all of the risks and rewards of the 
transferred assets. In these cases, the transferred assets are not 
de-recognised.
Financial liabilities
The Group de-recognises a financial liability when its contractual 
obligations are discharged or cancelled, or expire. The Group also 
de-recognises a financial liability when its terms are modified and the 
cash flows of the modified liability are substantially different, in which 
case a new financial liability based on the modified terms is 
recognised at fair value.
On de-recognition of a financial liability, the difference between the 
carrying amount extinguished and the consideration paid (including 
any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed) is recognised 
in profit or loss.
Offsetting
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount 
presented in the consolidated statement of financial position when, 
and only when, the Group currently has a legally enforceable right to 
set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis 
or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
Financial assets – subsequent measurement and gains and losses
Financial assets at FVTPL These assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Net gains and losse s, including any interest or dividend 
income, are recognised in profit or loss. However, see Note 19 for derivati ves designated as hedging instruments.
Financial assets at amortised cost These assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effect ive interest method. The amortised cost 
is reduced by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gai ns and losses and impairment are 
recognised in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on de-recognition is recogni sed in profit or loss.
Debt investments at FVOCI These assets are subsequently measured at fair valu e. Interest income calculated using the effective interest method, 
foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment ar e recognised in profit or loss. Other net gains and losses are 
recognised in OCI. On de-recognition, gains and los ses accumulated in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss.
Equity investments at FVOCI These assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Dividends are rec ognised as income in profit or loss unless 
the dividend clearly represents a recovery of part of the cost of the investm ent. Other net gains and losses are 
recognised in OCI and are never reclassified to profit or loss.
Financial liabilities – classification, subsequent measurement 
and gains and losses
Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortised cost or 
FVTPL. A financial liability is classified as at FVTPL if it is classified as 
held-for-trading, it is a derivative or it is designated as such on initial 
recognition. Financial liabilities at FVTPL are measured at fair value 
and net gains and losses, including any interest expense, are 
recognised in profit or loss. Other financial liabilities are subsequently 
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 
Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are 
recognised in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on de-recognition is also 
recognised in profit or loss. 
Modification of financial assets and financial liabilities 
Financial assets
If the terms of a financial asset are modified, the Group evaluates 
whether the cash flows of the modified asset are substantially 
different. If the cash flows are substantially different (referred to as 
‘substantial modification’), then the contractual rights to cash flows 
from the original financial asset are deemed to have expired. In this 
case, the original financial asset is de-recognised and a new financial 
asset is recognised at fair value.
The Group performs a quantitative and qualitative evaluation of whether 
the modification is substantial, i.e. whether the cash flows of the original 
financial asset and the modified or replaced financial asset are substantially 
different. The Group assesses whether the modification is substantial 
based on quantitative and qualitative factors in the following order: 
qualitative factors, quantitative factors, combined effect of qualitative 
and quantitative factors. If the cash flows are substantially different, then 
the contractual rights to cash flows from the original financial asset is 
deemed to have expired. In making this evaluation the Group analogizes 
to the guidance on the de-recognition of financial liabilities.
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024148   149   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
3. Material accounting policies continued
Derivatives and hedging activities
Initial recognition and subsequent measurement
The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as commodity 
derivatives to hedge its risks associated with jet-fuel price 
fluctuations. Such derivative financial instruments are initially 
recognised at fair value on the date on which the derivative contracts 
are entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value. 
Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is 
positive and as financial liabilities when the fair value is negative.
The fair value of commodity derivatives are determined by reference 
to available market information and swap/forward valuation 
methodology. Any gains or losses arising from changes in fair value of 
derivatives are taken directly to consolidated statement of profit or 
loss, except for the effective portion and cost of hedging for cash flow 
hedges, which are recognised in OCI.
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as:
 ►  Fair value hedges when hedging the exposure to changes in the 
fair value of a recognised asset or liability or an unrecognised firm 
commitment
 ►  Cash flow hedges when hedging the exposure to variability in cash 
flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with 
a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast 
transaction or the foreign currency risk in an unrecognised firm 
commitment
 ► Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation
The Group considers transactions with the probability of occurrence 
more than 90% highly probable transactions.
At the inception of the hedge, the Group formally designates and 
documents the hedging relationship to which the Group wishes to 
apply hedge accounting, and the risk management objective and 
strategy for undertaking the hedge. That documentation includes 
identification of the hedging instrument, the hedged item, the nature 
of the risk being hedged and how the entity will assess whether the 
hedging relationship meets the hedge effectiveness requirements 
(including its analysis of the sources of hedge ineffectiveness and 
how it determines the hedge ratio).
Such hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving 
offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an 
ongoing basis at each reporting date or upon a significant change in 
the circumstances affecting the hedge effectiveness requirements, 
whichever comes first. The assessment relates to expectations about 
hedge effectiveness and is therefore only forward-looking.
Hedges that meet the strict criteria for hedge accounting are 
accounted for as described below:
Cash flow hedges
The effective portion of the gains or losses on the hedging instrument 
is recognised directly in OCI in the cash flow hedge reserve, while any 
ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the consolidated 
statement of profit or loss.
The Group uses fuel options contracts as hedges of its exposure to jet 
fuel price fluctuations in forecast transactions and firm commitments. 
The ineffective portion relating to the ineffective portion relating to 
commodity contracts is recognised in the consolidated statement of 
profit or loss.
Amounts recognised as OCI are transferred to the consolidated 
statement of profit or loss when the hedged transaction affects the 
consolidated statement of profit or loss, such as when the hedged 
financial expense is recognised or when a forecast transaction occurs. 
When the hedged item is the cost of a non-financial asset or 
non-financial liability, the amounts recognised as OCI are transferred 
to the initial carrying amount of the non-financial asset or liability.
If the forecast transaction or firm commitment is no longer expected 
to occur, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is 
transferred to the consolidated statement of profit or loss. If the 
hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised without 
replacement or rollover, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, 
any cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in OCI remains in 
OCI until the forecast transaction or firm commitment affects 
consolidated statement of profit or loss.
If the hedge ratio for risk management purposes is no longer optimal 
but the risk management objective remains unchanged and the 
hedge continues to qualify for hedge accounting, the hedge 
relationship will be rebalanced by adjusting either the volume of the 
hedging instrument or the volume of the hedged item so that the 
hedge ratio aligns with the ratio used for risk management purposes. 
Any hedge ineffectiveness is calculated and accounted for in profit or 
loss at the time of the hedge relationship rebalancing.
Cost of hedging
If the time value of a purchased option is separated and excluded 
from the designated hedging instrument, then the excluded portion is 
separately accounted for as a cost of hedging. As such, the change in 
fair value of the excluded portion is recognised in OCI and 
accumulated in a separate component of equity to the extent that it 
relates to the hedged item.
As a result of the above accounting, fluctuations in the fair value of 
the time value element will be accounted in OCI, both positive and 
negative. At the maturity date, the time value of option becomes 
zero, the fair value is equal to the intrinsic value.
3. Material accounting policies continued
Crude oil commodity options
The Group has also entered into certain crude oil commodity options 
to mitigate the risk of variability of future cash flows on jet fuel 
consumptions. These are just purely economic hedges and changes to 
its value are directly charged to the consolidated statement of profit 
or loss within ‘Fuel and oil costs’.
Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly 
attributable to issue of ordinary shares and share options are 
recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects.
Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they  
are declared.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group recognises loss allowances for expected credit losses (ECLs) on:
 ► financial assets measured at amortised cost
 ► debt investments measured at FVOCI
The Group measures loss allowances at an amount equal to lifetime 
ECLs, except for the following, which are measured at 12-month ECLs:
 ► guarantee deposits and bank balances that are determined to have 
low credit risk at the reporting date
 ►  other guarantee deposits and bank balances for which credit risk 
(i.e. the risk of default occurring over the expected life of the 
financial instrument) has not increased significantly since initial 
recognition
Loss allowances for trade receivables and contract assets are always 
measured at an amount equal to lifetime ECLs.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has 
increased significantly since initial recognition and when estimating 
ECLs, the Group considers reasonable and supportable information 
that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort.
This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and 
analysis, based on the Group’s historical experience and informed 
credit assessment and including forward-looking information. 
The Group assumes that the credit risk on a financial asset has 
increased significantly if it is more than 30 days past due or if the 
external credit rating assigned to a financial asset by an international 
rating agency falls by six notches according to Standard & Poor’s 
Global Ratings (S&P Global Ratings), Moody’s or Fitch credit rating 
agencies.
The Group considers a financial asset to be in default when:
 ► the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group in 
full, without recourse by the Group to actions such as realising 
security (if any is held)
 ► the financial asset is more than 90 days past due
The Group considers a debt security to have low credit risk when its 
credit risk rating is equivalent to the globally understood definition of 
‘investment grade’. The Group considers this to be Baa3 or higher per 
Moody’s or BBB- or higher per S&P Global Ratings.
Lifetime ECLs are the ECLs that result from all possible default events 
over the contractual life of a financial instrument.
12-month ECLs are the portion of ECLs that result from default events 
that are possible within the 12 months after the reporting date (or a 
shorter period if the expected life of the instrument is less than 12 months).
The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the 
maximum contractual period over which the Group is exposed to 
credit risk.
Measurement of ECLs
ECLs are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses. Credit losses 
are measured as the present value of all cash shortfalls (i.e. the 
difference between the cash flows due to the entity in accordance 
with the contract and the cash flows that the Group expects to receive).
ECLs are discounted at the effective interest rate of the financial asset.
Credit-impaired financial assets
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether financial assets 
carried at amortised cost and debt securities at FVOCI are credit-
impaired. A financial asset is ‘credit-impaired’ when one or more 
events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash 
flows of the financial asset have occurred.
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024150   151   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continuedNotes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
3. Material accounting policies continued
Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired includes the 
following observable data:
 ► significant financial difficulty of the borrower or issuer
 ► a breach of contract such as a default or being more than 90 days 
past due
 ►  the restructuring of a loan or advance by the Group on terms that 
the Group would not consider otherwise
 ►  it is probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other 
financial reorganisation
 ► or the disappearance of an active market for a security because of 
financial difficulties
Presentation of allowance for ECL in the consolidated 
statement of financial position
Loss allowances for financial assets measured at amortised cost are 
deducted from the gross carrying amount of the assets.
For debt securities at FVOCI, the loss allowance is charged to profit or 
loss and is recognised in OCI.
Write-off
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off when the 
Group has no reasonable expectations of recovering a financial asset 
in its entirety or a portion thereof. The Group makes an assessment 
with respect to the timing and amount of write-off based on whether 
there is a reasonable expectation of recovery. The Group expects no 
significant recovery from the amount written off.
4. Application of new and revised international 
financial reporting standards
New standards and interpretations not yet adopted
A number of new standards are effective for annual periods beginning 
after 1 January 2024 and earlier application is permitted; however, the 
Group has not early adopted the new or amended standards in 
preparing these consolidated financial statements. 
(a) IFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial 
Statements
IFRS 18 will replace IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and 
applies for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 
2027. The new standard introduces the following key new requirements.
 ► Entities are required to classify all income and expenses into five 
categories in the statement of profit or loss, namely the operating, 
investing, financing, discontinued operations and income tax 
categories. Entities are also required to present a newly-defined 
operating profit subtotal. Entities’ net profit will not change 
 ► Management-defined performance measures (MPMs) are disclosed 
in a single note in the financial statements
 ► Enhanced guidance is provided on how to group information in the 
financial statements
In addition, all entities are required to use the operating profit subtotal 
as the starting point for the statement of cash flows when presenting 
operating cash flows under indirect method.
The Group is still in the process of assessing the impact of the new 
standard, particularly with respect to the structure of the Group’s 
statement of profit or loss, the statement of cash flows and the 
additional disclosures required for MPMs. The Group is also assessing 
the impact on how information is grouped in the financial statements, 
including for items currently labelled as “other”. 
(b) Other accounting standards 
The following new and amended standards are not expected to have 
a significant impact on the Group’s consolidated financial statements.
—  Lack of Exchangeability (Amendments to IAS 21).
—   Classification and Measurement of Financial Instruments 
(Amendments to IFRS 9 and IFRS 7).
5. Critical accounting judgements and key 
sources of estimation uncertainty
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity 
with IFRS Accounting Standards requires the management to make 
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of 
accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, 
income and expenses. Actual results may differ from those estimates.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an 
ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the 
period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that 
period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the 
revision affects both current and future periods.
The following are the critical judgements and estimates that the 
management have made in the process of applying the Group’s 
accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the 
amounts recognised in the consolidated financial statements.
Provisions
Provisions mainly consist of provision for aircraft maintenance 
(Note 23).
Determination of the functional currency
The functional currency of the Company is USD which, in the 
management’s view, reflects the economic substance of the 
underlying events and circumstances of the Group at the reporting 
date. At each reporting date the management of the Group reassesses 
factors that may affect the determination of the functional currency 
based on circumstances at the reporting date. Significant judgement is 
required from the management when analysing indicators of the 
primary economic environment including the pricing policy, structure 
of revenues from international and domestic routes, costs structure as 
well as continued development in the strategy of the Group for 
further development of international routes. Future circumstances, 
therefore, may be different and may result in a different conclusion.
 
Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
In reporting intangible assets and tangible assets, an assessment is 
made of the useful economic life and an assessment is made at least 
once a year to determine whether impairment exists.
Allowances
The Group accrues allowances for impairment of accounts receivable. 
The Group calculated the probability of default of accounts receivable 
based on the lifetime approach. Changes in the economy and specific 
customer conditions may require adjustments of the probability of 
default and loss given default coefficient derived based on the historical 
information and thus adjustment of the allowances for doubtful 
accounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements. As at 31 
December 2024 and 2023, allowances for doubtful accounts were 
equal to USD 882 thousand, USD 964 thousand, respectively (Note 16).
Other financial assets are mainly credit rated by one or more 
international credit rating agencies: Moody’s, Fitch, and S&P Global 
Ratings. The estimated credit loss is calculated for the entire useful life 
for those assets whose credit risk has increased significantly 
comparing to its level at the initial recognition date. Once the 
instrument is impaired the Group calculates allowances for doubtful 
accounts based on the expected future cash flows discounted at the 
original effective interest rate.
Interest on the impaired asset continues to be recognised through the 
unwinding of the discount. When credit risk significantly decreases for 
those assets which previously have been classified in Stage 2, the 
Group performs an analysis to determine whether the current 
financial position of the borrower is stable enough to reclassify such 
assets back to Stage 1. As at 31 December 2024 impairment 
allowances were equal to USD 44,357 thousand as disclosed in Note 
16 (31 December 2023: USD 45,258 thousand).
The Group annually estimates the necessity of write-down for 
obsolete and slow-moving inventories based on annual stock count 
data conducted at the reporting date. As at 31 December 2024, the 
Group recognised a write-down for obsolete and slow-moving 
inventories in the amount of USD 5,590 thousand (2023: USD 5,237 
thousand) (Note 14).
Customer loyalty programme
The Group’s Nomad Club Loyalty programme is an incentive program 
under which passengers are granted points for each flight. Once a 
passenger accumulates a certain number of points he or she can 
convert the points into a ticket. While calculating the customer loyalty 
programme provision the Group uses critical judgements and 
estimates in regard to the value per point by Nomad club members.
The Group uses estimated ticket values to calculate the programme’s 
point value. Outstanding unutilised points as of each reporting dates 
are treated as deferred revenue. Points are valued based on the weighted 
average standalone prices of tickets redeemed by route and class. 
Based on the historical statistics the Group determines the amount of 
breakage with regards to those points whose usage is not probable.
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024152   153   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continuedNotes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
5. Critical accounting judgements and key 
sources of estimation uncertainty continued
Lease term
Some property leases contain extension options exercisable by the 
Group up to one year before the end of the non-cancellable contract 
period. Where practicable, the Group seeks to include extension 
options in new leases to provide operational flexibility. The extension 
options held are exercisable only by the Group and not by the lessors. 
The Group assesses at lease commencement date whether it is 
reasonably certain to exercise the extension options. The Group 
reassesses whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the options if 
there is a significant event or significant changes in circumstances 
within its control.
The Group has applied judgement to determine the lease term for 
some lease contracts in which it is a lessee, based on the period for 
which the contract is enforceable. The Group considers that 
enforceability of the lease is established by a written contract 
(including broader interpretation of a penalty) in combination with 
applicable legislation governing the lease contract related to renewal 
or termination rights (specifically the lessee’s preferential rights to 
renew or not to cancel the lease). The Group determined that its 
preferential right to renew or not to cancel would on its own be 
treated as substantive, when the Group has a preferential right to 
renew or not to cancel the lease through a negotiation mechanism 
under the Civil Code of Kazakhstan. Thus, considering the broader 
economics of the contract, and not only the contractual termination 
payments, the lease term may go beyond the contract term.
Deferred tax asset recoverability and compliance with tax 
legislation
Tax legislation of Kazakhstan are subject to frequent changes and 
varying interpretations. The management’s interpretation of such 
legislation in applying it to business transactions of the Group may be 
challenged by the relevant regional authorities enabled by law to 
impose fines and penalties. It is possible that the tax treatment of 
transactions that have not been challenged in the past may be 
challenged. Fiscal periods remain open to review by the tax 
authorities in respect of taxes for the five calendar years preceding 
the year of tax review.
 
Under certain circumstances reviews may cover longer periods. While 
the Group believes it has provided adequately for all tax liabilities 
based on its understanding of the tax legislation, the above facts may 
create additional financial risks for the Group.
6. Segment reporting
The Group’s management makes decisions regarding resource 
allocation to segments based upon the results and the activities of its 
ful-service brand Air Astana and low-cost brand FlyArystan segments 
for the purpose of segments’ performance evaluation. The Group’s 
main activities can be summarised as follows: 
Air Astana 
The brand’s aviation activities consist of mainly domestic and 
international passenger and cargo air transportation as a full service 
airline.
FlyArystan
The brand’s aviation activities consist of mainly domestic and 
international passenger and cargo air transportation as a low-cost 
service airline.
The Group amended the treatment of intercompany leases costs 
between Air Astana and FlyArystan in its segment reporting to 
consistently apply IFRS 16 Leases in both operating segments. 
As a result of this change, the Group has recognised the depreciation 
of right-of-use assets arising from these intercompany lease 
transactions with FlyArystan. These transactions are treated as 
intersegment transactions and are reflected in elimination section of 
the segment report. The Group does not conduct separate analyses of 
the financial position for each segment. 
6. Segment reporting continued
Operating results for the years ended 31 December 2024 and 2023:
’000 USD
Consolidated Profit or Loss statement
2024 
Air Astana
2024 
FlyArystan
Inter-group 
elimination Total
Revenue and other income
Passenger revenue 917,187 328,867 (10) 1,246,044
Lease 69,867 21,531 (91,398) -
Cargo and mail revenue 23,891 2,412 - 26,303
Gain from sale and leaseback transaction 12,063 12,953 - 25,016
Other income 11,351 1,734 (1,300) 11,785
Total revenue and other income 1,034,359 367,497 (92,708) 1,309,148
 
Operating expenses
Fuel and oil costs (220,897) (84,286) - (305,183)
Employee and crew costs (171,666) (55,969) 976 (226,659)
Depreciation and amortisation (157,903) (61,133) 29,865 (189,171)
Passenger service (102,857) (15,820) - (118,677)
Engineering and maintenance (97,572) (57,600) 37,298 (117,874)
Handling, landing fees and route charges (92,985) (27,504) 4 (120,485)
Selling costs (41,058) (3,124) 2 (44,180)
Aircraft operating lease costs (18,843) (4,016) 17,643 (5,216)
Insurance (8,870) (3,931) - (12,801)
Consultancy, legal and professional services (7,753) (859) 200 (8,412)
IT and communication costs (4,640) (2,191) - (6,831)
Taxes (4,303) (58) - (4,361)
Property and office cost (4,185) (490) - (4,675)
Other operating costs (12,509) (2,108) - (14,617)
Total operating expenses (946,041) (319,089) 85,988 (1,179,142)
 
Operating profit 88,318 48,408 (6,720) 130,006
’000 USD
Consolidated Profit or Loss statement
2023 
Air Astana
2023 
FlyArystan
Inter-group 
elimination Total
Revenue and other income
Passenger revenue 869,171 274,425 - 1,143,596
Lease 87,277 673 (87,950) -
Cargo and mail revenue 20,773 1,746 - 22,519
Other income 7,449 950 - 8,399
Total revenue and other income 984,670 277,794 (87,950) 1,174,514
 
Operating expenses
Fuel and oil costs (209,195) (69,977) - (279,172)
Employee and crew costs (148,667) (44,400) - (193,067)
Depreciation and amortisation (159,148) (43,648) 40,785 (162,011)
Passenger service (86,901) (14,235) - (101,136)
Engineering and maintenance (99,663) (43,522) 35,005 (108,180)
Handling, landing fees and route charges (82,480) (23,247) - (105,727)
Selling costs (36,740) (3,691) - (40,431)
Aircraft lease costs (1,995) (1,844) 1,622 (2,217)
Insurance (7,723) (3,258) - (10,981)
Consultancy, legal and professional services (5,608) (121) - (5,729)
IT and communication costs (4,925) (1,613) - (6,538)
Taxes (3,920) - - (3,920)
Property and office costs (3,498) (367) - (3,865)
Other operating costs (14,334) (1,225) - (15,559)
Total operating expenses (864,797) (251,148) 77,412 (1,038,533)
 
Operating profit 119,873 26,646 (10,538) 135,981
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024154   155   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continuedNotes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
7. Revenue and other income
’000 USD 2024 2023
Passenger revenue
Scheduled passenger flights 
including: 1,151,415 1,092,287
Fuel surcharge 96,636 109,786
Airport services 59,984 57,185
Excess baggage 6,000 6,638
Charter flights 94,629 51,309
1,246,044 1,143,596
Passenger revenue increased by USD 102,488 thousand during 2024 as compared to 2023.
’000 USD 2024 2023
Cargo and mail revenue
Cargo – Regular 23,937 20,469
Mail 2,366 2,050
26,303 22,519
’000 USD 2024 2023
Other income
Incidental income 7,582 1,546
Income from ground services 1,738 1,522
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment and other assets 717 3,499
Other 1,748 1,832
11,785 8,399
The Group purchased three spare engines in 2024 which were immediately sold as part of a sale and leaseback transaction. Additionally, one 
engine purchased in April 2024 was sold in December 2024 as part of a sale and leaseback transaction. The Group measured the right-of-use 
assets arising from the leaseback at the proportion of the previous carrying amount of the asset that relates to the right-of-use retained by the 
Group. Accordingly, the Group recognised a net gain of USD 25,016 thousand which represents the excess of the sale proceeds over lease 
liabilities and the changes in engines’ related assets. The Group has sold the spare engines for the total amount of USD 90,500 thousand and 
recognised a right-of-use assets of USD 21,396 thousand and lease liabilities of USD 41,686 thousand. Under the lease agreement the Group has 
leased back the spare engines for eight years with monthly payments.  
During 2024 and 2023 passenger, cargo and mail revenue, representing total revenue from contracts with customers, were generated from the 
following destinations in each operating segment:
Operating segments
’000 USD
2024 
Air Astana
2024 
FlyArystan
2024
Intergroup 
elimination Total
Asia and Middle East 374,954 19,917 - 394,871
Europe 250,152 17,576 - 267,728
Domestic 241,222 264,970 (10) 506,182
CIS 74,750 28,816 - 103,566
Total Passenger and Cargo and mail revenue 941,078 331,279 (10) 1,272,347
Operating segments
’000 USD
2023 
Air Astana
2023 
FlyArystan
2023
Intergroup 
elimination Total
Asia and Middle East 302,053 17,784 - 319,837
Europe 264,741 22,697 - 287,438
Domestic 241,306 205,753 - 447,059
CIS 81,844 29,937 - 111,781
Total Passenger and Cargo and mail revenue 889,944 276,171 - 1,166,115
8. Operating expenses
’000 USD 2024 2023
Employee and crew costs
Wages and salaries 174,886 146,734
Accommodation and allowance 19,744 17,256
Social tax 15,492 13,528
Training 5,770 6,662
Other 10,767 8,887
226,659 193,067
The average number of employees during 2024 was 5,643 (2023: 5,467).
’000 USD 2024 2023
Engineering and maintenance
Maintenance, including components 76,958 79,639
Maintenance – variable lease payments 20,062 12,734
Spare parts 17,041 13,142
Technical inspection 3,813 2,665
117,874 108,180
’000 USD 2024 2023
Handling, landing fees and route charges
Handling charge 53,532 45,211
Aero navigation 43,089 37,593
Landing fees 21,638 20,941
Other 2,226 1,982
120,485 105,727
’000 USD 2024 2023
Passenger service
Airport charges 54,614 48,378
Catering 38,601 31,027
Security 6,248 5,090
Inflight entertainment 5,724 5,913
Other 13,490 10,728
118,677 101,136
’000 USD 2024 2023
Selling costs
Reservation costs 24,646 22,140
Commissions 10,253 9,152
Advertising 8,546 8,341
Other 735 798
44,180 40,431
9. Finance income and costs
’000 USD 2024 2023
Finance income
Interest income on bank deposits 21,414 14,071
Other 665 735
22,079 14,806
’000 USD 2024 2023
Finance costs
Interest expense on lease liabilities (Note 25) 54,102 44,578
Unwinding of the discount of provision for aircraft maintenance (Note 23 ) 9,772 3,362
Interest expense on bank loans (Note 25) 517 1,415
Other 265 537
64,656 49,892
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024156   157   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continuedNotes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
10. Income tax expense
The Group’s income tax expense for the years ended 31 December was as follows:
’000 USD 2024 2023
Current income tax
Current income tax (32,391) (41,137)
Adjustment recognised in the current year in relation to the current tax of p rior years 2,762 1,920
(29,629) (39,217)
Deferred tax expense 
Deferred income tax benefit 15,719 20,830
15,719 20,830
(13,910) (18,387)
Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial 
reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. In addition, as the Company has a functional currency that is different from 
the currency of the country in which it is domiciled, it recognises temporary differences on changes in exchange rates which lead to changes in 
the tax basis rather than the book basis. 
The tax effect on the major temporary differences that give rise to the deferred income tax assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2024 and 
2023 is presented in the table below:
’000 USD 2024 2023
Deferred tax assets
Lease liabilities 182,814 132,305
Provision for aircraft maintenance 64,061 50,758
Trade receivables  3,583 5,219
Trade and other payables 3,508 3,674
Tax loss carried forward - 41
Other 1,118 1,047
Total deferred tax assets 255,084 193,044
Deferred tax liabilities
Right of use assets (167,526) (120,772)
Difference in depreciable value of property, plant and equipment and int angible assets (31,953) (31,309)
Inventories (4,428) (2,621)
Prepaid expenses (2,410) (477)
Other (164) (825)
Total deferred tax liabilities (206,481) (156,004)
Net deferred tax assets 48,603 37,040
As at 31 December 2024 the Group concluded that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deferred tax asset 
will be utilised.
During 2024, the total amount of tax loss carried forward was utilised fully (tax loss carried forward as at 31 December 2023: the total amount of 
tax loss carried forward was utilised fully).
Movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities presented above were recorded in profit or loss accounts, except for USD 2,630 thousand related 
to carried forward corporate income tax movements, which were recognised in equity relating to the realised portion of deferred tax on cash 
flows hedge and effective portion of changes in fair value. (2023: USD 2,277 thousand).
In accordance with the local tax legislation both hedged and unhedged foreign currency losses are treated as deductible expenses for the 
purpose of corporate income tax calculations. If such deductible expenses cannot be fully utilised in the year of origination the tax code permits 
an entity to carry forward the accumulated tax losses for the next ten years.
  
The income tax rate in the Republic of Kazakhstan, where the Group is located, in 2024 and 2023 was 20%. The taxation charge for the year is 
different from that which would be obtained by applying the statutory income tax rate to profit or loss before income tax. 
10. Income tax expense continued
Below is a reconciliation of theoretical income tax at 20% (2023: 20%) to the actual income tax expense recorded in the Group’s consolidated 
statement of profit or loss:
’000 USD 2024 2023
Profit before tax 66,686 87,092
Corporate income tax, % 20% 20%
Income tax at statutory rate (13,337) (17,418)
USD forex effect 138 1,997
Tax effect of non-deductible expenses (882) (2,966)
Other 171 -
Income tax expense (13,910) (18,387)
11. Property, plant and equipment
’000 USD
Rotable  
spare parts
Office  
and training 
equipment
Buildings 
premises  
and land
Technical
equipment  
and vehicles Aircraft
Equipment  
in transit and
construction  
in progress Total
Cost
At 1 January 2023 102,892 11,987 38,324 2,682 1,265,967 10,179 1,432,031
Additions 18,565 3,774 10,821 251 163,833 2,736 199,980
Disposals (5,279) (638) (3,167) (65) (14,455) - (23,604)
Other transfers - 8,312 2,106 - - (10,418) -
At 31 December 2023 116,178 23,435 48,084 2,868 1,415,345 2,497 1,608,407
Additions 46,904 3,846 9,770 4,147 345,593 4,612 414,872
Disposals (14,967) (594) (1,384) (123) (53,548) - (70,616)
Other transfers (9,532) - - 9,027 505 - -
At 31 December 2024 138,583 26,687 56,470 15,919 1,707,895 7,109 1,952,663
Accumulated depreciation
’000 USD
Rotable  
spare parts
Office  
and training 
equipment
Buildings 
premises  
and land
Technical
equipment  
and vehicles Aircraft
Equipment  
in transit and
construction  
in progress Total
At 1 January 2023 39,485 7,595 14,051 1,534 551,781 - 614,446
Charge for the year 12,093 1,755 4,017 186 143,151 - 161,202
Disposals (3,034) (624) (2,635) (49) (14,219) - (20,561)
At 31 December 2023 48,544 8,726 15,433 1,671 680,713 - 755,087
Charge for the year 12,637 2,551 4,966 944 167,575 - 188,673
Disposals (1,758) (574) (1,345) (81) (50,623) - (54,381)
Other transfers (3,919) - - 3,919 - - -
At 31 December 2024 55,504 10,703 19,054 6,453 797,665 - 889,379
Net book value 
At 31 December 2023 67,634 14,709 32,651 1,197 734,632 2,497 853,320
At 31 December 2024 83,079 15,984 37,416 9,466 910,230 7,109 1,063,284
In determining the Group’s geographical information, assets, which consist principally of aircraft and ground equipment are mainly registered in 
the Republic of Kazakhstan. Accordingly, there is no reasonable basis for allocating the assets to geographical segments.
In 2024 the Group made full repayments on five finance lease obligations, resulting in the transfer of title for these aircraft in amount of USD 
66,562 thousand. Consequently, the right-of-use assets related to these aircraft are now classified as owned property. As at 31 December 2024 
net book value of these owned aircraft is USD 66,256 thousand.
As at 31 December 2024 technical equipment and vehicles includes highloader and five de-icing trucks with the net book value USD 9,716 
thousand, which were purchased in 2023 and 2024.
Rotable spare parts include aircraft modification costs.
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024158   159   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continuedNotes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
11 Property, plant and equipment continued
Right of use assets, included in property, plant and equipment, are as follows:
’000 USD
Rotable  
spare parts 
Buildings 
premises  
and land Aircraft Total
Cost
At 1 January 2023 23,874 14,290 1,265,967 1,304,131
Additions and modifications 27 10,117 163,833 173,977
Disposals (902) (3,167) (14,455) (18,524)
At 31 December 2023 22,999 21,240 1,415,345 1,459,584
At 1 January 2024 22,999 21,240 1,415,345 1,459,584
Additions and modifications 23,568 8,413 345,807 377,788
Disposals (574) (1,384) (53,544) (55,502)
Transfer of title - - (142,422) (142,422)
At 31 December 2024 45,993 28,269 1,565,186 1,639,448
Accumulated depreciation 
At 1 January 2023 11,185 10,514 551,781 573,480
Charge for the period 2,961 3,396 143,151 149,508
Disposals (883) (2,622) (14,219) (17,724)
At 31 December 2023 13,263 11,288 680,713 705,264
At 1 January 2024 13,263 11,288 680,713 705,264
Charge for the period 2,921 4,335 165,927 173,183
Disposals (554) (1,345) (50,569) (52,468)
Transfer of title - - (75,860) (75,860)
At 31 December 2024 15,630 14,278 720,211 750,119
Net book value
At 31 December 2023 9,736 9,952 734,632 754,320
At 31 December 2024 30,363 13,991 844,975 889,329
The Group’s obligations under leases for Aircraft have a carrying amount of USD 888,661 thousand (2023: USD 718,893 thousand) (Note 25). The 
total amount of Aircraft Under Lease as at 31 December 2024 includes 19 Airbus aircraft under leases related to the FlyArystan brand with a net 
book value of USD 340,451 thousand (2023: 18 Airbus aircraft with a net book value of USD 271,447 thousand). 
As per the loan agreement with JSC Halyk Bank of Kazakhstan, the Technical Center (Hangar) in Astana, with a carrying amount of USD 18,028 
thousand, is currently pledged in favor of JSC Halyk Bank of Kazakhstan.
The cost of fully depreciated items as at 31 December 2024 is USD 24,090 thousand (2023: USD 22,250 thousand). 
12. Depreciation and amortisation 
’000 USD 2024 2023
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (Note 11) 188,673 161,202
Amortisation of intangible assets 498 809
Total 189,171 162,011
13. Guarantee deposits
’000 USD
31 December  
2024
31 December  
2023
Non-current
Guarantee deposits for leased aircraft 36,742 32,233
Other guarantee deposits 2,356 1,599
Impairment allowances (403) (530)
38,695 33,302
Current
Other guarantee deposits 1,970 1,580
Guarantee deposits for leased aircraft 1,269 400
Impairment allowances - (1)
3,239 1,979
41,934 35,281
Guarantee deposits are interest-free and are recorded at amortised cost using an average market yield of 3.06% per annum (2023: 2.97%).
Guarantee deposits for leased aircraft comprise security deposits required by the lease agreements as security for future lease payments to be 
made by the Group. Guarantee deposits are denominated primarily in US Dollars. The Group assesses credit risk for such deposits as low mainly 
because almost all lessors are rated from AA to BBB in accordance with S&P Global Ratings credit quality grades. 
For those lessors who are not credit rated by international rating agencies, management calculates the expected credit loss based on the 
assumption that such lessors are rated at CCC by S&P Global Ratings. The amount of deposits with such lessors as at 31 December 2024 is USD 
2,535 thousand (2023: USD 3,732 thousand). 
As at 31 December 2024, the Group had guarantees and stand-by letters of credit in JSC Halyk Bank of Kazakhstan in the amount of USD 10,043 
thousand, USD 13,430 thousand in JSC Altyn Bank and USD 19,122 thousand in JSC Citibank Kazakhstan. As at 31 December 2023, the Group had 
guarantees and stand-by letters of credit in JSC Halyk Bank of Kazakhstan in the amount of USD 10,168 thousand, USD 13,396 thousand in JSC 
Altyn Bank and USD 41,979 thousand in JSC Citibank Kazakhstan.
Guarantee deposits for leased aircraft and maintenance liabilities are receivable as follows:
’000 USD
31 December  
2024
31 December  
2023
Within one year 1,269 400
After one year but not more than five years 9,367 11,456
More than five years 27,413 20,804
38,049 32,660
Fair value adjustment (38) (27)
38,011 32,633
The main driver for increases in guarantee deposits for leased aircraft in 2024 was the additional 20 aircraft committed for delivery in 2024-2028.
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024160   161   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continuedNotes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
14. Inventories
’000 USD
31 December  
2024
31 December  
2023
Spare parts 44,874 41,548
Fuel 8,147 14,733
Goods in transit 4,369 4,238
Crockery 4,189 4,136
Promotional materials 2,640 2,586
De-icing liquid 1,790 447
Uniforms 1,420 1,825
Other 4,290 3,272
71,719 72,785
Less: cumulative write-down for obsolete and slow-moving inventor ies (5,590) (5,237)
66,129 67,548
The movements in the cumulative write-down for obsolete and slow-moving inventories were as follows for the years ended 31 December:
’000 USD 2024 2023
Cumulative write-down for obsolete and slow-moving inventories at the beginning of the year (5,237) (5,858) 
Write-down for the year (1,145) (206)
Reversal of previous write-down for the year 792 827
Cumulative write-down for obsolete and slow-moving inventories at the end of the year (5,590) (5,237)
15. Prepayments
’000 USD
31 December  
2024
31 December  
2023
Non-current
Advances for services 10,366 9,146
Prepayments for long-term assets 9,225 9,305
19,591 18,451
Current
Advances for goods 16,489 10,934
Advances for services 11,074 11,506
Prepayments of leases without transfer of legal title 2,870 2,569
30,433 25,009
Less: impairment allowance for prepayments (143) (184)
30,290 24,825
As at 31 December 2024, prepayments for long-term assets include prepayments to Boeing as predelivery payment for three aircraft (Note 28).
The movements in the impairment allowance for the years ended 31 December 2024 and 31 December 2023:
’000 USD 2024 2023
At the beginning of the year (184) (218) 
Accrued during the year (5) (74)
Written-off against previously created allowance 46 98
Reversed during the year - 10
Impairment allowance at the end of the year (143) (184)
The impairment allowance includes advance payments made by the Group to suppliers which are currently subject to legal claims for recovery 
due to the suppliers’ inability to complete the transactions.
16. Trade and other receivables
’000 USD
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Non-current
Other financial assets 44,357 45,258
Other receivables 630 1,343
44,987 46,601
Less: impairment allowance (44,357) (45,258)
630 1,343
Current
Trade receivables 20,054 23,135
Other receivables 1,629 1,354
21,683 24,489
Less: impairment allowance (882) (964)
20,801 23,525
In 2016, due to the significant credit quality deterioration, KazInvestBank JSC announced that its banking licence was recalled, and Delta Bank JSC 
experienced temporary suspension of its licence for accepting new deposits and opening new accounts on 22 May 2017. Consequently, the 
management reclassified all funds held with these banks from the bank deposit line item to non-current trade and other receivables and 
recognised an impairment allowance of approximately 90% of the funds as at 31 December 2016. 
As at 31 December 2024 and 31 December 2023 the allowance for those banks comprises 100% of their gross balances.
17. Other taxes prepaid
’000 USD
31 December  
2024
31 December  
2023
Value-added tax recoverable 13,273 9,722
Other taxes prepaid 519 525
13,792 10,247
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024162   163   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continuedNotes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
18. Cash and cash equivalents
’000 USD
31 December  
2024
31 December  
2023
Term deposits with an initial maturity of less than 3 months 335,904 178,313
Current accounts with foreign banks 130,083 85,661
Current accounts with local banks 13,077 9,578
US Treasury Bills with initial maturity of less than 3 months 9,008 -
Cash in hand 77 111
Accrued interest 565 353
488,714 274,016
Impairment allowances (12) (10)
488,702 274,006
19. Other financial assets
The Group signed agreements and entered into transactions with various financial institutions to manage the risk of significant changes in 
aviation fuel prices. In accordance with the terms, financial institutions agreed to compensate the Group for the excess between the actual price 
of crude oil and the ceiling price specified in the agreements. The fair value of the fuel call options has been determined using а valuation 
model with market observable parameters.
 
Loss on fuel options of USD 2,178 thousand was added to fuel costs for the year ended 31 December 2024. Fuel costs for the year ended 31 
December 2023 include gain of USD 2,510 thousand.
’000 USD
Call option 
(purchase)
At 1 January 2023 1,660
Acquisition 3,225
Gain included in “fuel and oil costs” (2,509)
Payments on exercised contracts (587)
Gain included in OCI – Net change in fair value (1,026)
At 31 December 2023 763
At 1 January 2024 763
Acquisition 1,988
Loss included in “fuel and oil costs” (2,178)
Loss included in “finance cost” as ineffective part (58)
Payments on exercised contracts (645)
Loss included in OCI – Net change in fair value 432
At 31 December 2024 302
20. Equity
As at 31 December 2024 share capital was comprised of 351,887,760 authorised, issued and fully paid ordinary shares (31 December 2023: 17,000 
ordinary shares). The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per 
share at meetings of the Group.
In accordance with Kazakhstan legislation the Company’s distributable reserves are limited to the balance of retained earnings as recorded in the 
Company’s statutory financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS Accounting Standards. A distribution cannot be made when equity is 
negative or if distribution would result in negative equity or the Company’s insolvency. 
As at 31 December 2024 the Company had retained earnings, including the profit for the current year, of USD 276,748 thousand (2023: USD 
221,975 thousand).
On 31 March 2023, an annual general meeting of the Company’s shareholders was held. The general meeting decided to distribute 20% of the 
Company’s net profit for 2023 in the amount of KZT 7,516,580 thousand (equivalent of USD 16,776 thousand), which is equal to KZT 442 thousand 
(equivalent of USD 0.99 thousand) per share, between the Company’s shareholders in proportion to their interests. The dividends were fully paid 
on 26 May 2023.
No dividends were declared in 2024.
On 10 January 2024 existing shares were split to 306,000,000 shares and additional 60,000,000 shares were authorised for issue. 
The number of authorised but not issued shares is 9,473,685 as at the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements.
 
On 30 April 2024 the Company announced a buyback programme to purchase ordinary shares of the Company and global depositary receipts 
representing shares. The purpose of the programme is to meet the Company’s obligations arising from its employee incentive programmes. The 
first part of the programme was concluded in December 2024.
The total amount of treasury share as at 31 December 2024 is 4,638,555 shares.
The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on profit or loss for the period and the weighted average number of ordinary shares 
outstanding during the reporting period. Comparative figure for the year 2023 is based on profit or loss for the period and the updated number 
of ordinary shares outstanding after the share split of 306,000,000. 
’000 USD 2024 2023
Profit for the year 52,776 68,705
Number of ordinary shares 348,878,155 306,000,000
Earnings per share – basic and diluted (USD) 0.151 0.225
Outstanding employee share programs does not have a dilutive impact on the earnings per share for 2024 and 2023.
Book value per share
In accordance with the KASE decision dated 4 October 2010, financial statements must contain information on the book value per share 
(common and preferred) as of the reporting date, calculated in accordance with the rules approved by the KASE.
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Total assets 1,813,075 1,362,444
Less: intangible assets (6,018) (2,836)
Less: total liabilities (1,418,545) (1,149,085)
Net Asset Value 388,512 210,523
Number of ordinary shares 351,887,760 17,000
Book value per ordinary share (in USD) 1.104 12,383.706
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024164   165   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continuedNotes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
21. Share-based payments
The Group operates share-based payment programs as part of the total remuneration package provided to employees. These programmes 
include share award plans in which shares are provided to employees at no cost, subject to the Group achieving specified performance targets. 
All the programmes imply equity settlement.
IPO Award
The IPO Award plan is granted to key management personnel. The IPO Award plan vests after one year from the IPO date, subject to continued service, with 
no further performance conditions. The fair value of IPO Award is based on the market value of the share at the reporting date, KZT 802.37 (USD 1.53).
Long-Term Incentive Plan
The Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) is a recurring plan granted to the key management personnel, following the announcement of full-year results 
of each third IPO anniversary. The LTIP award is subject to the achievement of performance conditions: 60% of the award is based on a range of 
net profit margin targets for the 2026 year-end, and 40% of the award is based on the Company’s total shareholder return (“TSR”) performance 
against a peer group of other airlines. The total award amount is determined by the fulfilment of these performance conditions. The plan 
terminates on the tenth anniversary. The fair value of LTIP is based on the market value of the share at the reporting date, KZT 802.37 (USD 1.53).
The fair value of awards granted within LTIP was determined at reporting date using a binomial model (The Cox-Ross-Rubinstein binomial 
model) for TSR and Monte Carlo model for EPS with the following assumptions:
Inputs into the models Long-Term Incentive Plan
Market share price 1.53
Expected volatility 3.57%
Expected dividends dividend payment is not expected
Risk-free interest rate (based on US Treasury bonds) 4.39%
The expected volatility of Group’s share return was determined as the median volatility of peer companies’ share returns. Based on the model, 
as at 31 December 2024, the weighted average performance conditions level for EPS and TSR is 71.84%.
Employee Share Ownership Plan
The Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) is granted to eligible employees who had worked for the company for at least one year prior to the 
IPO. The ESOP will vest one year after the IPO with no further performance conditions except for continuous service.
The fair value of awards granted within the ESOP is based on the market value of the share at the reporting date, which is KZT 802.37 (USD 1.53).
Total number of awards granted
Number of awards
Employee 
Incentive Plan
Outstanding at 1 January 2024 -
Granted 6,189,494
Forfeited (472,196)
Outstanding at 31 December 2024 5,717,298
The fair value of share rights at reporting date granted to employees is recognised as an expense, within “Employee and crew costs” in profit or 
loss, over the vesting periods (1 and 3 years). The corresponding entry is reflected directly in equity.
Total expense recognised in 2024 in respect to equity-settled share-based payment was USD 7,636 thousand before income tax of USD 1,527 thousand.
22. Deferred revenue
’000 USD
31 December  
2024
31 December  
2023
Unearned passenger revenue 73,805 72,440
Customer loyalty program provision 15,996 11,928
89,801 84,368
The amount of revenue recognised in the current period that was included in the opening deferred revenue balance is USD 84,368 thousand. 
Unearned transportation revenue represents the value of sold but unused passenger tickets the validity period of which has not expired, 
excluding recognised passenger revenue in respect of the percentage of tickets sold that are expected not to be used or refunded.
Deferred revenue attributable to the customer loyalty programme refers to the Group’s Nomad Club programme.
23. Provision for aircraft maintenance
’000 USD
31 December  
2024
31 December  
2023
Engines 268,911 210,975
D-check 22,206 22,486
Provision for redelivery of aircraft 6,830 5,864
Landing gear 6,328 6,141
C-check 6,572 2,994
Auxiliary Power unit 4,288 5,328
315,135 253,788
The movements in the provision for aircraft maintenance were as follows for the years ended 31 December:
’000 USD 2024 2023
At 1 January 253,788 189,643
Accrued during the year (Note 8) 96,536 88,793
Used during the year (45,593) (25,047)
Reversed during the year (Note 8) (1,237) (2,963)
Recognised in property, plant and equipment 1,869 -
Unwinding of the discount (Note 9) 9,772 3,362
At 31 December 315,135 253,788
Under the terms of its lease agreements without transfer of title for aircraft, the Group is obliged to carry out and pay for maintenance based on 
use of the aircraft and to return aircraft to the lessors in a satisfactory condition at the end of the lease term. The maintenance cost estimates 
used for calculating the provisions are stated in US Dollars. 
The significant increase in the provision balance as at 31 December 2024 was due to the increased utilisation of aircraft and due to increased 
number of leased aircraft. 
The planned utilisation of these provisions is as follows:
’000 USD
31 December  
2024
31 December  
2023
Within one year 25,269 105,170
During the second year 105,778 62,411
During the third year 60,658 59,412
After the third year 123,430 26,795
Total provision for aircraft maintenance 315,135 253,788
Less: current portion 25,269 105,170
Non-current portion 289,866 148,618
Significant judgement is involved in determining the provision for aircraft maintenance. The management has engaged an independent 
specialist to assist in estimating the timing and cost of expected engine maintenance activities. The estimate by the independent specialist is 
prepared based on the current condition of aircraft, historical flight hours and cycles, expected future utilisation of the aircraft over the remaining 
life of the leases without transfer of title as well as requirements for returnable condition when the lease term is concluded. The estimates are 
based on the following key assumptions:
 ► expected utilisation rate for flight hours and cycles is based on historical data and actual usage
 ► market prices are used for services and parts
 ► aircraft will be operated within standard norms and conditions 
 ►  no provisions have been made for unscheduled maintenance
Beginning in 2024, the Group considers the availability of maintenance slots when estimating the timing of maintenance activities.
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024166   167   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continuedNotes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued
24. Trade and other payables
’000 USD
31 December  
2024
31 December  
2023
Trade payables 74,759 62,929
Advances received 11,314 8,570
Taxes payable 9,832 1,637
Deposits received from agents 9,102 7,250
Accrued bonuses 8,283 1,637
Due to employees 6,744 6,860
Vacation pay accrual 2,181 1,005
Pension contribution 1,214 1,014
Other 124 99
123,553 91,001
The Group’s trade and other payables are denominated in the following currencies:
’000 USD
31 December  
2024
31 December  
2023
Tenge 63,156 43,945
US Dollar 48,406 37,505
Euro 6,105 4,395
British Pound 773 958
Other 5,113 4,198
123,553 91,001
25. Lease liabilities
As at 31 December 2024 the Group has three Boeing 767 aircraft under fixed interest lease agreements with transfer of title (2023: five Airbus 
and three Boeing 767 aircraft). In 2024 the Group has fully repaid liabilities related to five Airbus with transfer of title.
The Group’s leases with transfer of title are subject to certain covenants. These covenants impose restrictions in respect of certain transactions, 
including, but not limited to, restrictions in respect of indebtedness. Certain lease agreements with transfer of title include covenants as regards 
to change of ownership of the Group. These requirements have been met as at 31 December 2024 and 2023.
All other aircraft leases other than described above are contracted without the right for purchase at the end of the lease term.
The Group’s obligations under leases are secured by the lessors’ title to the leased assets. These assets have a carrying value of USD 889,329 
thousand (2023: USD 754,320  thousand) (Note 11).
Minimum  
lease payments
Present value of  
minimum lease payments
’000 USD
31 December  
2024
31 December  
2023
31 December  
2024
31 December  
2023
Not later than one year 226,588 214,585 171,886 174,997
Later than one year and not later than five years 675,020 512,484 557,647 431,400
Later than five years 170,589 121,453 159,128 112,496
1,072,197 848,522 888,661 718,893
Less: future finance charges (183,536) (129,629) - -
Present value of minimum lease payments 888,661 718,893 888,661 718,893
Included in the consolidated financial statements a s:
- current portion of lease obligations - - 171,886 174,997
- non-current portion of lease obligations - - 716,775 543,896
- - 888,661 718,893
The Group’s lease obligations are mainly denominated in US Dollars. 
25. Lease liabilities continued
Reconciliation of movements of loans and lease liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities
’000 USD Loans
Lease  
liabilities Total
Balance as at 1 January 2024 412 718,893 719,305
Repayment of borrowings (38,016) - (38,016)
Proceed from borrowings 37,600 - 37,600
Additional financing from sale and leaseback 593 - 593
Repayment of lease liabilities - (190,331) (190,331)
Repayment of additional financing (426) - (426)
Interest paid (520) (53,911) (54,431)
Total changes from financing cash flows (769) (244,242) (245,011)
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 417 (1,175) (758)
Other changes
Additional adjustment – new leases and modifications 367,045 367,045
Non-cash settlement due to netting with guarantee deposits (3,087) (3,087)
Gain from early return of aircraft (2,875) (2,875)
Interest expense (Note 9) 517 54,102 54,619
Total other changes 517 415,185 415,702
Balance as at 31 December 2024 577 888,661 889,238
’000 USD Loans
Lease  
liabilities Total
Balance as at 1 January 2023 12,096 732,804 744,900
Repayment of borrowings (46,250) - (46,250)
Proceed from borrowings 35,000 - 35,000
Repayment of lease liabilities - (173,302) (173,302)
Repayment of additional financing (390) - (390)
Interest paid (1,459) (41,258) (42,717)
Total changes from financing cash flows (13,099) (214,560) (227,659)
Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates - 81 81
Other changes - - -
Additional adjustment – new leases and modifications - 160,574 160,574
Non-cash settlement due to netting with guarantee deposits - (4,584) (4,584)
Interest expense (Note 9) 1,415 44,578 45,993
Total other changes 1,415 200,568 201,983
Balance as at 31 December 2023 412 718,893 719,305
On 1 July 2015 the Group designated a portion of its US Dollar lease obligations with transfer of title as hedges of highly probable future US Dollar 
revenue streams. The Group applied the cash flow hedge accounting model to this hedging transaction in accordance with IAS 39.
In connection with the transition of the functional currency to US Dollars, this hedge ceased to be economically effective from 31 December 
2017. At 31 December 2024 a foreign currency loss of USD 6,899 thousand (2023: USD 19,613 thousand), before deferred income tax of USD 1,380 
thousand (2023: USD 3,923 thousand) on the lease liabilities with transfer of title, representing an effective portion of the hedge, is deferred in 
the hedging reserve within equity. As a result of the change, the hedge relationship has been discontinued so that starting from 1 January 2018 
no further foreign currency translation gains or losses are transferred from profit or loss to the hedge reserve, and the hedge reserve recognised 
in equity as at 31 December 2017 shall remain in equity until the forecasted revenue cash flows are received.
During 2024 the amount reclassified from the hedging reserve to foreign exchange loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income 
was USD 12,714 thousand (before deferred income tax of USD 2,543 thousand) (2023: USD 12,408 thousand before deferred income tax of USD 
2,482 thousand).
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024168   169   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 
26. Financial instruments
Exposure to credit, interest rate, currency and commodity price risk arises in the normal course of the Group’s business. The Group does not hedge 
its exposure to such risks, other than commodity price risk and interest rate risks arising from lease contractual obligations as discussed below.
Capital management
The Group manages its capital to ensure the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to the shareholders 
through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The Group’s current 10-year development strategy was approved in 2017 and covers 
the years 2017-2026.
The capital structure of the Group consists of net debt (comprising loans and lease obligations in Note 25) and equity of the Group (comprising 
issued capital, functional currency translation reserve, reserve on hedging instruments and retained earnings as detailed in Note 19).
The Group is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
The Group does not have a target gearing ratio.
Credit risk
Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group has 
adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and obtaining sufficient collateral, where appropriate, as a means of mitigating 
the risk of financial loss from defaults. Credit exposure is controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and approved by the risk 
management committee annually.
The maximum exposure to credit risk related to financial instruments, such as cash, guarantee deposits and accounts receivable, is calculated 
based on their book value.
 
Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas. Ongoing credit evaluation is 
performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable and, where appropriate, credit guarantee insurance cover is purchased.
As at 31 December 2024 and 31 December 2023 there was no significant concentration of credit risk in respect of trade accounts receivable (Note 16).
The Group uses reputable banks and has established a cash investment policy which would limit the credit risk related to bank accounts and deposits.
As a result of the increased credit risks on some of the banks, the management reconsidered its cash management policy in 2017 and reviewed 
the credit ratings of the major banks in Kazakhstan and placed its main amounts due from banks in banks with ratings of “BBB- or higher. The 
carrying amounts of financial assets represent the maximum credit exposure. Impairment losses on financial assets recognised in profit or loss 
were as follows:
’000 USD Note 2024 2023
Reversal of impairment loss on trade and other receivables and prepaymen ts 15, 16 35 212
(Accrual)/reversal of impairment loss on guarantee deposits 13 128 (256)
Accrual of impairment loss on cash and cash equivalents 18 (2) (1)
161 (45)
Trade and other receivables
’000 USD
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Default banks 44,357 45,258
Trade receivables 20,054 23,135
Amounts due from employees 1,976 2,697
Receivable from lessors 283 -
Total gross carrying amount 66,670 71,090
Impairment allowance (45,239) (46,222)
Total net carrying amount 21,431 24,868
26. Financial instruments continued
Trade receivables
The sale of tickets is the main revenue source of the Group. The Group uses agents who sell tickets on behalf of the Group to corporations and 
the general public for a certain commission that varies depending on the geographical location and market conditions. As a result agents amass 
significant amounts of funds for tickets sold which are recorded as trade receivables by airlines. The International Air Transport Association 
(hereinafter referred to as “IATA”) conducts monitoring of agents by establishing IATA accreditation procedures designed to ensure the credit 
quality of agents. IATA also sets Local Financial Criteria for each market in accordance to which agents have to obtain a credit enhancement such 
as bank guarantee or insurance from a financial institution of certain credit rating before they can be accredited by IATA.
On a regular basis, IATA notifies the airlines about the amount of debt from each agent in excess of its guarantee or insurance protected amount. 
In addition, IATA also informs about sharp and unusual increases in sales which might signal an increase in risk. The Group then decides whether 
to stop dealing with such agents until the negative factors are resolved.
The Group does not have trade receivables and contract assets for which no loss allowance is recognised because of collateral.
At 31 December 2024, five debtors including IATA Billing Settlement Plans (BSPs) as collecting agencies from the worldwide travel agencies 
comprised 63% of the Group’s trade and other receivables excluding banks in default (at 31 December 2023: nine debtors comprised 69%). 
The following tables provide information about the exposure to credit risk for trade receivables as at 31 December 2024, 31 December 2023.
31 December 2024 31 December 2023
’000 USD 
Gross carrying 
amount
Loss  
allowance
Gross carrying 
amount
Loss  
allowance
Current (not past due) 13,383 (19) 22,344 (8)
1–30 days past due 6,305 - 390 -
31-90 days past due 29 - 62 -
More than 90 days past due 337 (337) 339 (339)
20,054 (356) 23,135 (347)
Amounts due from employees
In general, certain part of the ab-initio pilot training costs is borne by the pilot trainees but are funded by the Group through the provision of 
interest free loans to participants of the programme. The Group withholds the amounts due from pilots’ salary on a monthly basis. Those pilots 
or cadets who leave the Group are fully provided with respect of the credit losses.
Movements in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade and other receivables 
’000 USD 2024 2023
Balance at 1 January 46,222 46,521
Accrual of impairment allowance 1,646 840
Write-off of impairment allowance - (97)
Foreign currency difference (943) 74
Reversal of impairment allowance (1,686) (1,116)
Balance at 31 December 45,239 46,222
Guarantee Deposits
The main counterparties of the Group have a credit rating of at least from BBB- S&P Global Ratings.
To determine whether published ratings remain up-to-date and to assess whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk at the 
reporting date that has not been reflected in published ratings the Group monitors changes in credit risk by tracking their financial stability.
12-month and lifetime probabilities of default are based on historical data supplied by S&P Global Ratings for each credit rating. Loss given 
default (LGD) parameters generally reflect an assumed recovery rate of 30% except when a security is credit-impaired, in which case the 
estimate of loss is based on the instrument’s current market price and original effective interest rate.
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024170   171   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 
26. Financial instruments continued
The following table presents credit ratings of guarantee deposits each of which were classified in stage 1:
’000 USD
31 December 
2024
31 December 
2023
Credit rating
BBB- to AAA 37,085 28,901
C to CCC+ 2,535 3,732
Without ratings 2,717 3,179
Gross carrying amounts (amortised cost before impai rment) 42,337 35,812
Impairment allowance (403) (531)
Total net carrying amount 41,934 35,281
The Group did not have any guarantee deposits that were either past due or impaired. 
’000 USD 2024 2023
Balance at 1 January (531) (275) 
Net re-measurement of loss allowance 128 (256)
Balance at 31 December (403) (531)
Cash and cash equivalents
The Group held cash and cash equivalents of USD 488,702 thousand at 31 December 2024 (2023: USD 274,006 thousand). The cash and cash 
equivalents are held with bank and financial institution counterparties, which are rated BBB- to A+, based on S&P Global ratings.
Impairment on cash and cash equivalents has been measured on a 12-month expected loss basis and reflects the short maturities of the 
exposures. The Group believes that its cash and cash equivalents have low credit risk based on the external credit ratings of the counterparties.
The Group uses a similar approach for assessment of ECLs for cash and cash equivalents to those used for bank and guarantee deposits. The 
following table presents an analysis of the credit quality of cash and cash equivalents measured at amortised cost:
31 December 2024 31 December 2023
’000 USD
Gross carrying 
amount
12 month  
ECL Carrying amount
Gross carrying 
amount
12 month  
ECL Carrying amount
Credit rating
BBB- to A+ 474,122 (12) 474,110 257,562 (9) 257,553
B+ to BB+ 14,592 - 14,592 16,343 (1) 16,342
Without ratings - - - 111 - 111
488,714 (12) 488,702 274,016 (10) 274,006
Interest rate risk
The Group is not exposed to significant interest rate risk because the Group mainly borrows funds at fixed interest rates.
Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in currencies other than the US Dollar. The currencies 
giving rise to this risk are primarily Tenge and Euro. For amounts of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency refer to Note 18. The 
management believes that it has taken appropriate measures to support the sustainability of the Group’s business under the current 
circumstances.
26. Financial instruments continued
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The Group is mainly exposed to the risk of change of exchange rates of the US Dollar against Tenge and Euro.
The carrying value of the Group’s monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency as at the reporting date has been provided below. This 
disclosure excludes assets and liabilities denominated in other currencies as they do not have significant effect on the consolidated financial 
statements of the Group.
Notes 31 December 2024 31 December 2023
’000 USD Tenge Euro Tenge Euro
Assets
Other taxes prepaid 17 13,792 - 10,247 -
Trade and other receivables 16 14,463 1,156 16,008 1,757
Income tax prepaid 12,999 - 13,259 -
Cash and cash equivalents 18 12,879 5,978 3,869 1,686
Guarantee deposits 323 295 341 313
Total 54,456 7,429 43,724 3,756
Liabilities
Trade and other payables 24 63,156 6,105 43,945 4,395
Lease liabilities 7,897 - 4,832 -
Total 71,053 6,105 48,777 4,395
Net position (16,597) 1,324 (5,053) (639)
In 2024 the following table details the Group’s sensitivity of weakening of the US Dollar against the Tenge by 10% (2023: 10%) and Euro by 10% 
(2023: 10%) and strengthening of the US Dollar against the Tenge by 10% (2023: 10%) and Euro by 10% (2023: 10%). 
The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their translation at the period end 
for above mentioned sensitivity ratios.
The sensitivity analysis includes trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents, bank deposits, guarantee deposits, trade and other 
payables, loans and lease liabilities.
A negative number below indicates a decrease in Profit or Loss and positive number would be an opposite impact on the Profit or Loss:
Weakening of US Dollar Strengthening of US Dollar
’000 USD Tenge Euro Tenge Euro
31 December 2024 10% 10% 10% 10%
(Loss)/profit (1,328) 106 1,328 (106)
Weakening of US Dollar Strengthening of US Dollar
’000 USD Tenge Euro Tenge Euro
31 December 2023 10% 10% (10%) (10%)
Profit/(loss) (404) (51) 404 51
The Group limits the currency risk by monitoring changes in exchange rates of foreign currencies in which trade and other receivables, cash and 
cash equivalents, bank deposits, guarantee deposits, trade and other payables and loans and lease liabilities are denominated.
Liquidity risk management
Liquidity risk is the risk that a Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its liabilities that are settled by delivering 
cash or another financial asset. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient 
liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to 
the Group’s reputation.
Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Group’s Management. The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining 
adequate reserves, continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows and matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024172   173   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 
26. Financial instruments continued
Liquidity and interest risk tables
The following tables detail the Group’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial liabilities and assets. The tables have been 
drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the Group can be required to pay.
’000 USD Up to 3 months
3 months to  
1 year 1-5 years
Over  
5 years Total
31 December 2024
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 19,377 1,424 630 - 21,431
Guarantee deposits 616 2,623 10,536 28,197 41,972
Cash and cash equivalents 488,702 - - - 488,702
Financial liabilities
Non-interest bearing
Trade and other payables 77,064 9,102 - - 86,166
Fixed rate
Loans 24 72 478 183 757
Lease liabilities 58,312 168,276 675,020 170,589 1,072,197
’000 USD Up to 3 months
3 months to  
1 year 1-5 years
Over  
5 years Total
31 December 2023
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables 22,778 747 1,343 - 24,868
Guarantee deposits 384 1,595 12,230 21,099 35,308
Cash and cash equivalents 274,006 - - - 274,006
Financial liabilities
Non-interest bearing
Trade and other payables 73,544 7,250 - - 80,794
Fixed rate
Loans 106 317 - - 423
Lease liabilities 53,282 161,303 512,484 121,453 848,522
Fair values
Cash and cash equivalents
The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents approximates their fair value as they either have short-term maturity or are interest-bearing and 
hence are not discounted.
Fuel call options
The Group uses options to hedge the risk of jet fuel price movement. The Group uses standard market instruments for fuel hedging purposes, 
such as “call option” (where the premium is paid in advance bу the Group to cover the risk of increases of commodity price above the 
predetermined level). Since there is no possibility to hedge the risk of changes in jet fuel prices purchased from call option suppliers, the Group 
hedges only the amount of fuel purchased outside the Republic of Kazakhstan, signing a general agreement with several international banks on 
the conclusion of derivative transactions. The management of the Group determines the volume of jet fuel that will bе hedged before executing the 
deal. Hedging is carried out according to the Fuel hedging policy approved bу the Directors and shareholders of the Group. The Group determines 
the economic relationship between the hedge instrument and the hedge item by analyzing the historic price movement of aviation fuel and Brent 
by performing a regression analysis. The resulting Beta coefficient is assessed for statistical significance and used as a hedge ratio. 
The hedge ineffectiveness comes from the probability that due to constantly changing economic conditions the highly probable transaction, 
purchase of aviation fuel, might not occur.
The fair values (FV) of financial assets and financial liabilities of the Group are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models 
based on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar instruments.
The Group applied discounted expected future cash flows method under income approach to reach fair value of the instruments. The cash-flows 
represent payouts from the counterparties to the Group in case of a floating price exceeding a strike price.
26. Financial instruments continued
To estimate payouts the Group applied Monte Carlo method based on Geometric Brownian Motion model. The following key inputs parameters 
were used by the Group in their model:
 ► Spot: Brent Crude Oil futures last price as at 31 December 2024 and 31 December 2023
 ► Growth rate: futures curve for Crude Oil, Brent (ICE) according to Bloomberg
 ► Volatility: Implied volatility for Brent Crude oil according to Bloomberg
 ► Discount rate: 4.39% (as at 31 December 2023: 5.3%) according to the Group estimations
These hedge items are highly probable future transactions planned for the first half of 2025. International fuel uplift volumes partially hedged for 
the first half of 2025. The hedge instrument is the crude oil call option with the strike prices of USD 85, USD 80 and USD 75 per barrel. Based on 
the hedge ratio of 1.459, the Group hedged 183,912 barrels of fuel as at 31 December 2024. Due to the short-term maturity the Group does not 
expect significant changes in the fair value of the instruments.
Level 2 fair values for financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss have been generally derived using the fair value valuation 
reports provided bу the banks which participate in hedging transactions. The most significant input into this valuation approach are time left to 
maturity of the deal, forward and spot prices of crude oil.
The Group has no other financial and non-financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into 
Levels 1 to 3 of fair value hierarchy.
Guarantee Deposits
Guarantee Deposits are recognised at amortised cost. The management believes that their carrying amounts approximate their fair value.
Trade and other receivables and payables
For receivables and payables with a maturity of less than six months fair value is not materially different from the carrying amount because the 
effect of the time value of money is not material. Ab-initio receivables are recorded at fair value at initial recognition and subsequently 
measured at amortised cost. The management believes that their carrying amounts approximate their fair value. 
Loans
Loans are recognised at amortised cost. The management believes that their carrying amounts approximate their fair values.
Lease liabilities
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted 
using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the Group’s incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the 
Group uses its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. 
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024174   175   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 
 
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 
27. Measurement of fair values
A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the measurement of fair values for financial assets and liabilities.
The Group has an established control framework with respect to the measurement of fair values. This includes a finance department that has 
overall responsibility for overseeing all significant fair value measurements, including Level 3 fair values.
The finance department regularly reviews significant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments. If third-party information, such as broker 
quotes or pricing services, is used to measure fair values, then the valuation team assesses the evidence obtained from the third parties to 
support the conclusion that such valuations meet the requirements of IFRS Accounting Standards, including the level in the fair value hierarchy in 
which such valuations should be classified.
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability might be categorised in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the 
fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to 
the entire measurement.
The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy at the end of the reporting period during which the change has occurred.
As at 31 December 2024 and 2023 all of the Group’s assets were measured at amortised cost except for fuel call options.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses market observable data as far as possible. Fair values are categorised 
into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the inputs used in the valuation techniques as follows:
 ►  Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
 ►   Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or 
indirectly (i.e. derived from prices)
 ►   Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs)
If the inputs used to measure the fair value of an asset or a liability might be categorised in different levels of the fair value hierarchy, then the 
fair value measurement is categorised in its entirety in the same level of the fair value hierarchy as the lowest level input that is significant to 
the entire measurement.
Further information about the assumptions made in measuring fair values is included in Note 26.
28. Commitments and contingencies
Capital commitments
In 2011 the Group finalised an agreement with Boeing to purchase three Boeing-787 aircraft. The Group is committed to pre-delivery payments 
in accordance with the agreed payment schedule. 
The terms of the Group’s contract with the above supplier precludes it from disclosing information on the purchase cost of the aircraft.
Lease commitments
Aircraft
Aircraft leases are for terms of between 4 to 12 years. All lease contracts contain market review clauses in the event that the parties agree to 
renew the leases. The Group may not have an option to purchase the leased aircraft at the expiry of the lease period.
The fixed and fixed part of variable lease payments are denominated and settled in US Dollars. This currency is routinely used in international 
commerce for aircraft leases.
Non-cancellable commitments for leases of aircraft to be delivered from 2024 to 2026:
’000 USD
31 December
2024
31 December
2023
Within one year 29,084 22,166
After one year but not more than five years 772,349 511,496
More than five years 941,398 852,470
1,742,831 1,386,132
During 2022-2024 the Group has placed the orders and signed respective lease agreements for 40 aircraft – Boeing 787, Airbus 321LR, A321Neo, 
A320Neo, A320ceo and A320neo in low-cost carrier configuration with deliveries in the period between 2023 to 2028. During 2024 one A321neo, 
six A320neo, two A320ceo, one A321ceo were delivered and two Embraer E190-E2 were redelivered. 
Additionally, aircraft lease extension for six A320ceo family aircraft and two A320neo family aircraft were executed during 2024. 
Insurance
Aviation insurance
Air Astana puts substantial attention in contracting insurance coverage for its aircraft operations and hence hedges aviation risks with major 
international insurance markets (e.g. Lloyd’s) with a high rating of financial stability through the services of an international reputable broker. 
Types of insurance coverage are stated below: 
 ► Aviation Hull, Total Loss Only and Spares All risks and Airline Liability including Passenger Liability
 ► Aircraft Hull and Spare Engine Deductible
 ► Aviation Hull and Spares ‘War and Allied Perils
 ► Aviation War, Hi-Jacking and Other Perils Excess Liability
Non–aviation Insurance
Apart from aviation insurance coverage the Group constantly purchases non-aviation insurance policies to reduce the financial risk of damage to 
property and general liability, as well as covering employees from accidents and medical expenses, as follows:
 ► Medical insurance of employees
 ► Directors, Officers and Corporate liability insurance
 ► Property insurance
 ► Comprehensive vehicle insurance
 ► Compulsory insurance of employee from accidents during execution of labour (service) duties
 ► Pilot’s loss of license insurance
 ► Insurance of goods at warehouse
 ► Cyber insurance
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024176   177   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 
 
Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements continued 
 
28. Commitments and contingencies continued
Taxation contingencies
The taxation system in Kazakhstan is relatively new and is characterised by frequent changes in legislation, official pronouncements and court 
decisions, which are often unclear, contradictory and subject to varying interpretation by different tax authorities, including opinions with respect 
to IFRS Accounting Standards treatment of revenues, expenses and other items in the consolidated financial statements. Taxes are subject to 
review and investigation by various levels of authorities, which have the authority to impose severe fines and interest charges. A tax year 
generally remains open for review by the tax authorities for five subsequent calendar years; however, under certain circumstances a tax year 
may remain open longer.
The management believes that it has provided adequately for tax liabilities based on its interpretations of applicable tax legislation, official 
pronouncements and court decisions. However, the interpretations of the relevant authorities could differ and the effect on these consolidated 
financial statements, if the authorities were successful in enforcing their interpretations, could be significant.
The functional currency of the Company is the US Dollar, as it best reflects the economic substance of the underlying events and circumstances 
of the Company. The Tax Code of the Republic of Kazakhstan does not contain provisions which would regulate questions arising from the 
application of functional currency in accounting books different from Tenge. However, the Tax Code requires all taxpayers in Kazakhstan to 
maintain their tax records and to settle tax liabilities in Tenge. Therefore, the Group also maintains records and conducts calculations in Tenge for 
the purpose of taxation and settlement of tax liabilities and makes certain estimates in this respect. The management believes that such 
approach is the most appropriate under the current legislation.
Operating environment
Emerging markets such as Kazakhstan are subject to different risks than more developed markets, including economic, political and social, and 
legal and legislative risks. Laws and regulations affecting businesses in Kazakhstan continue to change rapidly, tax and regulatory frameworks 
are subject to varying interpretations. The Group initially incurred a fine imposed by the court following an investigation by the Antimonopoly 
agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan regarding an alleged non-compliance in the collection of fuel surcharge from passengers for services 
rendered during the period January 2021 – May 2022. Initially, the court determined a penalty amounting to KZT 6,806,138 thousand (USD 15,041 
thousand); however, after the Group appealed the court decision, the fine was decreased significantly to the amount of KZT 876,863 thousand 
(USD 1,848 thousand). The Group fully repaid the fine in January 2024. Following the initial court decision, the Group faces the possibility of legal 
proceedings with the Antimonopoly agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan concerning an alleged non-compliance in the collection of fuel 
surcharge from passengers for services rendered starting from June 2022. If such legal proceedings were to occur, the Group might be subject to 
a fine which cannot be estimated reliably because the principle underlying the assessment of the fine by the latest court was unclear. The future 
economic direction of Kazakhstan is heavily influenced by the fiscal and monetary policies adopted by the government, together with 
developments in the legal, regulatory, and political environment. As Kazakhstan produces and exports large volumes of oil and gas, its economy 
is particularly sensitive to the price of oil and gas on the world market. 
Depreciation of the Kazakhstan Tenge, volatility in the global price of oil and geopolitical conflicts have also increased the level of uncertainty in 
the business environment. The consolidated financial statements reflect the management’s assessment of the impact of the Kazakhstan 
business environment on the operations and the financial position of the Group. The future business environment may differ from the 
management’s assessment.
29. Related party transactions
Management remuneration
Key management that have authority and responsibility regarding management, control and planning of the Group’s activity received the 
following remuneration during the year, which is included in employee costs (Note 8):
’000 USD 2024 2023
Wages and salaries 7,599 7,323
Share-based payment 1,571 -
Social tax 865 671
Termination benefits 318 -
10,353 7,994
29. Related party transactions continued
Transactions with related parties
Related parties comprise the shareholders of the Group and all other companies in which those shareholders, either individually or together, 
have a controlling interest or significant influence.
The Group provides air transportation services to Government departments, Government agencies and State-controlled enterprises. The Group 
has established its buying and approval process for purchases and sales of products and services. Both sales and purchase transactions are 
conducted in the ordinary course of the Group’s business on terms comparable to those with other entities that are not State-controlled.
The following table represents the related party transactions:
2024 2023
’000 USD  
Services received
Transaction  
value
Outstanding 
balance
Transaction  
value
Outstanding 
balance
State-owned companies 107,654 2,173 149,402 1,332
Shareholders and their subsidiaries 75,285 (4,479) 67,765 (1,598)
182,939 (2,306) 217,167 (266)
Services from related parties are represented by airport, navigation, meteorological forecasting services and fuel.
’000 USD 2024 2023
Services provided by the Group
Transaction  
value
Outstanding 
balance
Transaction  
value
Outstanding 
balance
Shareholders and their subsidiaries 1,335 189 1,229 1,018
State-owned companies - - - -
1,335 189 1,229 1,018
All outstanding balances with related parties are to be settled in cash within six months of the reporting date. None of the balances are secured. 
Transactions with government-related entities
The Group transacts with a number of entities that are controlled by the Government of Kazakhstan. The Group applies the exemption in IAS 24 
Related Party Disclosures that allows to present reduced related party disclosures regarding transactions with government-related entities.
These transactions are conducted in the ordinary course of the Group’s business on terms comparable to those with other entities that are not 
government-related.
30. Fees for the services received from the independent auditors
The fees for the services received from the independent auditors including the statutory audit and other non-audit fees as per the agreements 
for the year ended 31 December 2024:
’000 USD 2024 2023
Audit fee 547 515
Non-audit fees related to IPO - 444
Other non-audit fees 36 90
583 1,049
31. Subsequent events
There were no events after the reporting date that require separate disclosure.
 
 
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024178   179   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
32. Approval of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements
The consolidated financial statements were approved by the management of the Group and authorised for issue on 13 March 2024.
XX   AIR ASTANA Integrated Annual Report 2024
Additional  
information
Major transactions  182
Economic performance  182
GRI content index  183
Independent practitioner’s assurance report 186
TCFD 188
Glossary  196
181   180   
fulﬁlling our promises
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024
AT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Additional information
Major transactions Economic performance
Additional information
GRI content index
The Air Astana Group has reported in alignment with the GRI Standards for the period from 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024. 
GRI standard/disclosure Location of disclosures/reasons for omission
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2021
2-1 Organisational details
• Name of the organisation Cover of the Annual Report 2024
• Ownership and legal form Notes to the consolidated financial statements, pages 140-179
• Location of headquarters Almaty, Kazakhstan
• Location of operations At a glance, pages 11-19
2-2  Entities included in the organisation’s sustainabil ity reporting Air Astana Group
2-3  Reporting period, frequency and contact point
• Reporting period for financials 1 January 2024 – 31 December 2024
• Reporting period for sustainability data 1 January 2024 – 31 December 2024
• Publication date April 2025 (Annual)
• Contact point for questions regarding the report Corporate.governance@airastana.com
Sustainability.issues@airastana.com
2-4 Restatements of information The Company has not performed restatement of the information
2-5 External assurance Independent practitioner’s assurance report, page 18 6
2-6 
 Activities, value chain and other business relations hips At a glance, pages 11-19; Business model, pages 32-33; Stakeholder enga gement and 
priorities, pages 38-44; Sustainability, page 46
2-7 Employees Sustainability, pages 63-66
2-9 Governance structure and composition Sustainability, page 48; Corporate Governance report, pages 98-12 7
2-10  Nomination and selection of the highest governance body Corporate Governance report, pages 98-127
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body Corporate Governance report, pages 98-127
2-12  Role of the highest governance body in overseeing t he 
management of impacts
 
Corporate Governance report, pages 98-127
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impac ts Sustainability, page 48; Corporate Governance report, pages 98-12 7
2-14 
 Role of the highest governance body in 
sustainability reporting
Sustainability, page 48
2-15 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance report, pages 98-127
Policy for Prevention of Conflicts of Interest
2-16 Communication of critical concerns Sustainability, pages 50
2-17 
 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body Sustainability, page 48
2-18  Evaluation of the performance of the highest 
governance body
Corporate Governance report, pages 98-127
2-19 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance report, pages 98-127
2-20 Process to determine remuneration Corporate Governance report, pages 98-127
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy Sustainability, pages 46-47
2-23 Policy commitments Sustainability, pages 49-51
2-24 Embedding policy commitments Sustainability, pages 49-51
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts Sustainability, pages 49-51
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising conc erns Sustainability, pages 49-51
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations Sustainability, page 58
2-28 Membership associations International Air Transport Association (IATA), Association of As ia Pacific Airlines 
(AAPA), IATA Clearing House, Flight Safety Foundation, Airline Passe nger Experience 
Association (APEX), International Society of Air Safety Investigat ors (ISASI)
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement and priorities, pages 38-44
Through its core activities and socio-economic investments, the Group 
contributes to the local and national economies wherever it operates. 
Recognising its duties as a corporate citizen, it operates its business in a 
responsible, efficient and profitable manner and is committed to 
supporting sustainable development through:
 ► Enhancing efficiency and productivity in its core business activities
 ► Paying taxes
 ► Creating both direct and indirect employment opportunities
 ► Supporting local economies by sourcing from local suppliers and 
developing supply chains
Comprehensive details regarding the economic performance of Air 
Astana Group are available in the audited financial statements of this 
Integrated Report, on pages 130 to 140.
Direct economic value generated and distributed data is reported only 
for Kazakhstan, as it represents our significant market based on 
operational scale and impact; no other country, region, or market 
meets the criteria for separate reporting.
USD ‘000 2024 2023 2022
Direct economic value generated  1,331,227    1,189,320    1,039,377   
Revenue 1,309,148 1,174,514 1,032,382
Economic value distributed 1,074,145 978,384 827,813  
Operating cash costs  756,600   679,396    597,677  
Employee wages and benefits  226,659    193,067    148,907   
Payments to providers of capital  54,619    62,769    38,495   
Payment to government  33,990    43,137   42,650   
Community investments  2,277    15    84   
Economic value retained  257,082   210,936    211,564   
This year, the Group has enhanced the calculation of direct economic value generated and 
distributed by refining the classification of cash costs and including income tax in the ‘taxes 
paid’ component. These improvements reflect our ongoing commitment to increasing the 
accuracy and transparency of our reporting. As a result, figures from previous years have 
been recalculated to ensure consistency with the updated methodology.
Agreements on transfer of rights and obligations under the Airbus 
A320neo Family Fleet Management Programme for maintenance of 
PW1100G engines between International Aero Engines, LLC, FlyArystan 
JSC (as a new party accepting part of the rights and obligations) and Air 
Astana JSC (as a party transferring part of the rights and obligations). 
Acquisition of seven (7) Airbus A321neo LR aircraft on operating lease 
with deliveries from 2026 from ALC Clover Ireland Limited.  
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024182   183   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
GRI standard/disclosure Location of disclosures/reasons for omission
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics Sustainability section, page 49
3-2 List of material topics Sustainability section, page 51
3-3 Management of material topics Throughout the annual report – see individual indicators for further in formation
Strategy Strategy, pages 34-35
Ethics and compliance Sustainability, pages 49-51
Corporate Governance Covered in GRI 2-9
Stakeholder engagement Covered in GRI 2-29
Economic performance (GRI 201: Economic performance  2016)
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distribut ed Additional information, page 182
201-2 
 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities 
due to climate change
Sustainability, pages 188-195  
Risk Management, page 74
201-4 Financial assistance received from government No financial assistance has been received from government since the launch of Air Astana
Procurement practices (GRI 204: Procurement practic es 2016)
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Sustainability, page 71
Anti-corruption (GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016)
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corr uption Sustainability, page 50  
Principle risks and uncertainties, page 80
205-2 
 Communication and training about anti-corruption po licies 
and procedures
 
Sustainability, pages 49-50
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions  taken Sustainability, page 51  
(d) 
 Not applicable, since no public legal cases regarding corruption brou ght against the 
Group or its employees during the reporting period
Aviation safety management systems Sustainability, pages 61-62
Energy (GRI 302: Energy 2016)
302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Sustainability, page 56
(a) 
 The Group has assessed its fuel consumption from non-renewable sources; however, 
this information is not disclosed due to strategic considerations
(c) (3. 4). Not applicable, since there were no cooling and steam consumpti on.
(d) Not applicable, as the Group does not sell electricity, heating, cool ing, or steam
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Sustainability, page 56
Emissions (GRI 305: Emissions 2016)
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Sustainability, page 56
(c) Not applicable, as the Group does not generate biogenic CO₂ emissions .
(d) 
 Not applicable, as the Group has not established a base year. Emissions 
performance is measured against a long-term decarbonization traje ctory targeting 
net-zero by 2050, rather than a fixed historical baseline
305-4 GHG emissions intensity Sustainability, page 56
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Sustainability, page 56
305-7
   Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other  
significant air emissions
 
Sustainability, page 56
GRI standard/disclosure Location of disclosures/reasons for omission
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 continued
Waste management (GRI 306: Waste 2020)
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impac ts Sustainability, page 57
306-5 General waste by type and disposal methods Sustainability, page 57
(b) (c)
  Not applicable as the Group uses different approach for hazardous and 
non-hazardous waste disposal
Environmental compliance Sustainability, page 58
Employment (GRI 401: Employment 2016)
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Sustainability, page 64
401-2 
 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 
to temporary or part-time employees
 
Sustainability, page 65
401-3 Parental leave Sustainability, page 64
Occupational health and safety (GRI 403: Occupational health and safe ty 2018)
403-1 Occupational health and safety management sys tem Sustainability, pages 59-62
403-2 
 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and 
incident investigation
Sustainability, pages 59-60
403-3 Occupational health services Sustainability, pages 59-60
403-4 
 Worker participation, consultation, and communicati on on 
occupational health and safety
 
Sustainability, pages 59-60
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and sa fety Sustainability, pages 59-60
403-6 Promotion of worker health Sustainability, pages 59-60
403-9 Work-related injuries Sustainability, pages 59-60
(b) (f) 
 Not applicable, as workers who are not employees are not covered by 
the Occupational Health and Safety system and not controlled by the Group
Training and development (GRI 404: Training and educ ation 2016)
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Sustainability, page 67
404-2 
 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition 
assistance programmes
Sustainability, pages 67-70
404-3 
 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 
career development reviews
All employees receive annual appraisal as well  
as career development review 
406-1 
 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Sustainability, page 65
Customer privacy (GRI 418: Customer privacy 2016)
418-1 
 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of cus tomer 
privacy and losses of customer data
 
Sustainability, page 51
Innovation and digitalisation Operating review, page 51
Service quality Operating review, pages 82-92
Passenger turnover Operating review, pages 82-92
On-time flight performance Operating review, pages 82-92
Fleet technological improvements Operating review, pages 82-92
Additional information GRI content index continued Additional information GRI content index continued 
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024184   185   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATIONAT A GLANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
XX   AIR ASTANA Integrated Annual Report 2024
Additional information Independent practitioner’s limited assurance report continued Additional information
Independent practitioner’s limited assurance 
report on Air Astana JSC’s Selected 
consolidated sustainability information
To the Board of Directors of Air Astana JSC 
Limited assurance conclusion 
We have conducted a limited assurance engagement on the selected 
consolidated sustainability information of Air Astana JSC (hereinafter 
the “Company”) and its subsidiary (hereinafter - the “Group”) that is 
disclosed in the Annual Report and is summarised in the Appendix  
to this report (hereinafter - the “Selected consolidated sustainability 
information” and the “Annual Report” respectively) as at 31 December 
2024 and for the year then ended. 
Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we 
have obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to 
believe that the Selected consolidated sustainability information is not 
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI 
Sustainability Reporting Standards published by the Global Reporting 
Initiative (GRI) (hereinafter - the “GRI Standards”). 
Basis for conclusion 
We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with 
International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 
(Revised), Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of 
historical financial information (“ISAE 3000 (Revised)”), issued by the 
International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. 
We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and 
appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Our responsibilities 
under this standard are further described in the Practitioner’s 
responsibilities section of our report.
Our independence and quality management 
We have complied with the independence and other ethical 
requirements of the International Code of Ethics for Professional 
Accountants (including International Independence Standards) issued 
by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA 
Code), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, 
objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and 
professional behaviour. 
The firm applies International Standard on Quality Management 1, 
which requires the firm to design, implement and operate a system of 
quality management including policies or procedures regarding 
compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and 
applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Responsibilities for the Selected consolidated 
sustainability information 
Management of the Company is responsible for:
 ► The preparation of the Selected consolidated sustainability 
information in accordance with GRI Standards;
 ► Designing, implementing and maintaining such internal control as 
Management of the Company determines is necessary to enable 
the preparation of the Selected consolidated sustainability 
information, in accordance with GRI Standards, that is free from 
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and
 ► The selection and application of appropriate sustainability reporting 
methods and making assumptions and estimates that are 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Board of Directors are responsible for overseeing the Group’s 
sustainability reporting process.
Inherent limitations in preparing the Selected 
consolidated sustainability information 
Under the GRI Standards there is a range of different, but acceptable, 
measurement and reporting techniques. The techniques can result in 
materially different reporting outcomes that may affect comparability 
with other organizations. The Selected consolidated sustainability 
information should therefore be read in conjunction with the 
methodology used by Management of the Company as described in 
the Annual Report, and for which the Company is solely responsible.
Practitioner’s responsibilities 
Our responsibility is to plan and perform the assurance engagement 
to obtain limited assurance about whether the Selected consolidated 
sustainability information is free from material misstatement, whether 
due to fraud or error, and to issue a limited assurance report that 
includes our conclusion. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error 
and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they 
could reasonably be expected to influence decisions of users taken on 
the basis of the Selected consolidated sustainability information. 
As part of a limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 
3000 (Revised) we exercise professional judgement and maintain 
professional scepticism throughout the engagement. We also:
 ► Determine the suitability in the circumstances of the Group’s use  
of GRI Standards as the basis for the preparation of the Selected 
consolidated sustainability information.
 ► Perform risk assessment procedures, including obtaining an 
understanding of internal control relevant to the engagement, to 
identify where material misstatements are likely to arise, whether 
due to fraud or error, but not for the purpose of providing a 
conclusion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control.
 ► Design and perform procedures responsive to where material 
misstatements are likely to arise in the Selected consolidated 
sustainability information. The risk of not detecting a material 
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting 
from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional 
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Summary of the work performed 
A limited assurance engagement involves performing procedures  
to obtain evidence about the Selected consolidated sustainability 
information. The procedures in a limited assurance engagement  
vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a 
reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of 
assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially 
lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a 
reasonable assurance engagement been performed.
The nature, timing and extent of procedures selected depend on 
professional judgement, including the identification of where material 
misstatements are likely to arise in the Selected consolidated 
sustainability information, whether due to fraud or error. 
In conducting our limited assurance engagement, we:
 ► Obtained an understanding of the Group’s reporting processes 
relevant to the preparation of its Selected consolidated 
sustainability information;
 ► Performed inquires of relevant personnel on the Selected 
consolidated sustainability information;
 ► Conducted limited substantive testing on a sample basis on a 
Selected consolidated sustainability information to verify that the 
data have been properly calculated, recorded, compared and 
disclosed.
Restriction on distribution and use 
Our report has been prepared solely for the Board of Directors of the 
Company in accordance with the agreement between us, to assist the 
Management of the Company in reporting on the Group’s sustainability 
performance and activities and in responding to their governance 
responsibilities by obtaining an independent limited assurance report in 
connection with the Selected consolidated sustainability information. 
The Selected consolidated sustainability information therefore may not 
be suitable, and is not to be used, for any other purpose. 
We permit this report to be disclosed in the Annual Report, which will 
be published on the Group’s website. 
The maintenance and integrity of the Group’s website is the 
responsibility of Management of the Company; the work carried out 
by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, 
accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may 
have occurred to the reported Selected consolidated sustainability 
information when presented on the Group’s website. 
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume 
responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our work or this 
report except where the respective terms are expressly agreed in 
writing and our prior consent in writing is obtained.
28 April 2025
Almaty, Kazakhstan
Appendix to the Independent practitioner’s limited assurance report 
28 April 2025 
The Selected consolidated sustainability information for the year ended 31 December 2024 and for the year then ended disclosed pages 50-71, 
80, 182 of the Annual Report and prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards and subject to limited assurance procedures are set out below:
GRI Standard ReportedPerformance (selected consolida ted sustainability information) Pages
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 182
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers p. 71
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption p. 50, 80
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken p. 51
302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 56
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 56
305-4 GHG emissions intensity p. 56
305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions p. 56
306-5 Waste directed to disposal p. 57
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 64
401-3 Parental leave p. 64-65
403-9 Work-related injuries p. 60
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee p. 67
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken p. 65
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data p. 51
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024186   187   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Additional information
Task Force on Climate-related Financial 
Disclosures (TCFD) 
GOVERNANCE
Disclose the organisation’s governance around climate-related risks and opportunities. 
TCFD recommendation Progress to date
(a)  Describe the Board’s 
oversight of climate-
related risks and 
opportunities
The Air Astana Group recognises the critical role of robust governance in m anaging climate-related risks and 
opportunities. Since 2022 we have continuously enhanced our governa nce framework to ensure climate considerations 
are effectively identified, assessed and integrated within the broad er strategy and approach to decision-making. The 
Board is regularly informed about climate-related risks and opportu nities (CRRO). This is achieved through reporting 
mechanism, including quarterly updates on CRRO developments.
Sustainability and strategic resilience remain one of the Group’s key p riorities. The Board of Directors holds primary 
responsibility for overseeing climate-related risks and opportu nities and for developing a strategic response. This 
includes setting clear strategies and targets, endorsing climate- related policies and initiatives, monitoring and reporting 
on associated risks and opportunities, implementing robust risk man agement practices, and actively engaging 
stakeholders to align with evolving environmental expectations.
The Audit Committee is entrusted with ensuring the effectiveness of the Gr oup’s risk management framework. 
Additionally, the Risk Committee, acting as an advisory body to the CEO, co nducts preliminary assessments of risk 
management issues, including climate-related risks. The Audit Com mittee and the Board of Directors receive quarterly 
updates on risk management activities, with details outlined in the Ris k Management section of this Integrated Report 
(page 74).
The Board of Directors is accountable for the Group’s sustainable devel opment strategy, with the ESG Committee 
overseeing its implementation. The ESG Committee collaborates clo sely with other Board Committees on interrelated 
matters. This includes collaboration with the Audit Committee to ensu re the effectiveness of the Group’s risk 
management framework to manage risks related to climate. It also includ es collaboration with the Strategic Planning 
Committee to ensure that decisions relating to climate mitigation suc h as fuel and CO2 efficiency are considered in 
procurement decisions. For example, this is reflected in the procurem ent of next-generation aircraft with enhanced fuel 
efficiency and lower emissions to align with the Group’s sustainabili ty objectives. 
(b) 
 Describe management’s 
role in assessing and 
managing climate-
related risks and 
opportunities
The active engagement of management in assessing and addressing clima te-related risks is essential to the Group’s 
operations. By implementing proactive measures to mitigate these ri sks and seize emerging opportunities, the Group 
strengthens its resilience and ensures sustainable growth in an incre asingly complex global environment.
The CEO holds primary responsibility for overseeing the Group’s susta inable development and climate governance. In 
close collaboration with the senior management team, the CEO leads effo rts to identify, evaluate, and manage 
climate-related risks effectively and to coordinate a resilience resp onse. Supporting these initiatives, the Risk 
Committee serves as an advisory body to the CEO, playing a crucial role in risk i dentification, assessment, monitoring, 
and reporting.
Together, the Risk Committee and the senior management team develop and i mplement targeted actions to manage 
climate-related risks, ensuring they are integrated into the Group’s broader strategic objectives. This is supported by 
regular management reviews, quarterly Board reporting, and the inco rporation of climate risks into the Group’s overall 
risk assessment framework. 
STRATEGY
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy, and financial 
planning where such information is material.
TCFD recommendation Progress to date
(a)  Describe the climate-related 
risks and opportunities the 
organisation has identified over 
the short, medium and long term
Air Astana Group defines the time horizons for climate-related risks an d opportunities as follows:
Short-term: 0-1 year – aligned with the budget
Medium-term: 2-5 years – aligned with the business plan
Long-term: 6-25 years – aligned with the net-zero target by 2050 and the usefu l economic life of fleet vehicles.
The following risks and opportunities have been identified over the sho rt-, medium- and long-term time 
horizons: 
TRANSITION RISKS 
Air Astana Group is exposed to regulatory changes to reduce emissions, sp ecifically carbon regulation and 
regulation relating to the use of sustainable fuels. 
Regulatory: Carbon regulation      
Air Astana Group is primarily exposed to carbon regulation through the Ca rbon Offsetting and Reduction 
Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA), as Kazakhstan is a partic ipant in the scheme. Under CORSIA, the 
airline is required to offset CO₂ emissions from international flight s above 85% of 2019 levels in 2024-2035 by 
purchasing carbon credits. As CORSIA progresses through its phases, o ffsetting costs may increase, impacting 
operational expenses.
While the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) applies to int ra-European flights, Air Astana has 
limited exposure due to the absence of scheduled intra-European opera tions, apart from occasional technical 
flights. As a result, the financial impact of EU ETS on the airline remains min imal.
Domestically, Kazakhstan currently has no regulation on CO₂ emissio ns for aviation, meaning there are no 
immediate compliance obligations or carbon pricing risks in the short t erm. However, in the medium term, 
regulatory developments may introduce new carbon pricing mechanis ms or emissions reduction requirements 
for domestic aviation. If implemented, such policies could lead to addi tional compliance costs.
Technology: Sustainable Aviation Fuel mandates  
The introduction of Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF) mandates in key mar kets where Air Astana Group operates, 
including Europe and other international regions, may impose regula tory requirements for a minimum SAF 
blend in jet fuel. This could lead to increased fuel costs, or an inability to pr ocure SAF due to the lack of 
availability in the marketplace.
While the availability of SAF in Central Asia remains limited, global adva ncements in SAF production and 
policy-driven incentives may gradually extend to the region. Compli ance with these mandates could 
necessitate investment in new fuelling infrastructure, partners hips with SAF producers, and potential airfare 
pricing adjustments to manage rising costs. However, these developm ents also present an opportunity for Air 
Astana to strengthen its sustainability credentials, access green f inancing, and align with international aviation 
decarbonisation goals.
Additional information Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) continued 
 
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024188   189   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Additional information Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) continued Additional information Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) continued 
STRATEGY (continued)
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy, and financial 
planning where such information is material.
TCFD recommendation Progress to date
(a)  Describe the climate-related 
risks and opportunities the 
organisation has identified over 
the short, medium and long term 
(continued)
PHYSICAL RISKS 
Air Astana Group recognises that climate change poses acute and chronic p hysical risks that may impact flight 
operations, airport infrastructure, and financial performance a cross its extensive network of international and 
domestic destinations. 
Physical: Acute 
Acute physical risks, including extreme heat, heavy precipitation , pluvial flooding, wind gusts, and wildfires, 
can cause immediate operational disruptions such as flight delays, ca ncellations, safety risks, and increased 
maintenance costs. Rising temperatures can affect aircraft perform ance, particularly at high-altitude or 
hot-weather airports, leading to payload restrictions and higher fu el consumption. Heavy precipitation and 
flooding may disrupt ground operations, while strong wind gusts prese nt challenges for take-off, landing, and 
en-route turbulence. Additionally, wildfires near key destinati ons can impact operations due to reduced air 
quality, airport closures, and visibility concerns. 
Physical: Chronic 
Chronic physical risks, such as rising maximum temperatures, prolon ged changes in snow depth, increasing 
asphalt binder temperatures, and fluvial flooding, present long-t erm challenges for aircraft efficiency, fuel 
consumption, and operational planning. Higher ambient temperatu res may increase cooling requirements for 
aircraft systems, affecting overall energy efficiency. Changes in sn ow accumulation patterns could impact 
winter operations, requiring adjustments in de-icing strategies a nd airport turnaround times. While runway 
infrastructure is managed by airport authorities, higher temperatu res can lead to longer take-off distances and 
potential restrictions on aircraft weight, affecting scheduling an d route planning. 
OPPORTUNITES 
Air Astana Group recognises that the transition to a low-carbon economy p resents strategic opportunities to 
enhance operational efficiency, strengthen market positioning, a nd create long-term value. 
Resource efficiency: Fleet modernisation and fuel e fficiency
Investment in advanced, fuel-efficient aircraft aligns with global a viation decarbonisation targets and offers 
potential opportunities for resource efficiencies.
Resource efficiency: Optimising flight operations
Optimising flight operations can reduce flight times, flight manage ment and fuel use.  
Competitive positioning and sustainability leadersh ip: Sustainable Aviation Fuel initiatives 
Involvement in SAF initiatives supports the availability of SAF in the ma rketplace, can enhance the airline’s 
sustainability credentials and provide a competitive edge in key mark ets.
Competitive positioning and sustainability leadersh ip: Engaging new stakeholders in a low-carbon 
economy  
The global shift towards sustainability presents an opportunity to st rengthen relationships with stakeholders 
who prioritise climate action. Air Astana Group can attract environme ntally conscious consumers, institutional 
investors focused on green financing, and suppliers committed to ESG- aligned business practices.
STRATEGY (continued)
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy, and financial 
planning where such information is material.
TCFD recommendation Progress to date
(b)  Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities 
on the organisation’s business, 
strategy and financial planning
At Air Astana Group, we address material climate-related risks and oppo rtunities when developing or updating 
our ESG Strategy, Low-Carbon Development Program, and financial pla nning. 
TRANSITION RISKS 
Exposure to carbon regulation and SAF regulation can result in increase d operating and compliance costs due  
to increased carbon credit purchasing obligations under CORSIA, inc reased exposure to broader carbon tax 
regimes, and increased costs of fuel. It may also be necessary to adapt to chan ges in infrastructure in the 
event that SAF use is mandated.
To integrate climate transition risks into financial planning, we ass ess the potential impact of carbon pricing, 
SAF adoption costs and fuel efficiency investments on our financial mod el. By incorporating long-term 
sustainability planning into budgeting, we ensure financial resil ience while meeting evolving regulatory 
requirements.
Fleet and operations 
To minimise our carbon exposure and reduce fuel dependency, we have commi tted to a comprehensive fleet 
modernisation plan that prioritises fuel-efficient aircraft pur chases and older aircraft retirements. By phasing 
out older aircraft and investing in next-generation models we are signi ficantly reducing our emissions intensity. 
Additionally, we continuously invest in fuel efficiency enhanceme nts in flight operations, including advanced 
fuel management software to optimise consumption, improve route pla nning, and reduce emissions. These 
measures align with our commitment to operational excellence and sust ainability.
As Kazakhstan’s leading airline, we recognise the importance of mitig ating climate change impacts, ensuring 
regulatory compliance, and capitalising on emerging opportuniti es in sustainable aviation. Given that exposure 
to carbon regulation changes and SAF mandates will lead to higher operati ng costs, fleet efficiency is a crucial 
mitigation strategy. 
Net-zero strategy 
We have also developed a comprehensive ESG Strategy (2023–2032) that al igns with six priority UN SDGs. This 
strategy outlines our long-term commitment to sustainability and po sitions us as a regional leader in 
responsible aviation. Additionally, our Low-Carbon Developmen t Program (LCDP) systematises efforts to reduce 
emissions, optimise fuel consumption, and prepare for future regula tory changes. In 2024, we revised our net 
zero commitment, moving our target from 2060 to 2050 in alignment with the gl obal aviation industry’s goals, 
rather than Kazakhstan’s national target. Following this decision , we recognized the need to update the LCDP 
accordingly and began this work in 2024. It now incorporates a structured d ecarbonisation roadmap with 
near-term targets for the next five years.
Sustainable aviation partnerships for production and procurement of SAF 
With the introduction of SAF mandates in key international markets, we an ticipate increased fuel costs and 
potential infrastructure adaptation requirements. Although SA F is not yet widely available, we recognise its 
importance in aviation decarbonisation and have taken proactive ste ps to prepare for SAF integration. To 
address this, we co-financed a pre-feasibility study with KazMunayGa s and the European Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development to assess the potential for SAF product ion in Kazakhstan. Recognising the 
absence of local SAF, we have also signed a strategic partnership memoran dum with PetroChina International 
Kazakhstan to explore alternative jet fuel sourcing options. This col laboration focuses on securing Jet A-1 fuel 
imports and evaluating SAF imports from China to ensure regulatory comp liance and supply stability.
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024190   191   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Additional information Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) continued Additional information Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) continued 
STRATEGY (continued)
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy, and financial 
planning where such information is material.
TCFD recommendation Progress to date
(b)  Describe the impact of climate-
related risks and opportunities 
on the organisation’s business, 
strategy and financial planning 
(continued)
PHYSICAL RISKS 
Physical risks are well integrated into the organisation’s strategy a nd financial planning, given that weather 
events can result in operational delays and disruption. Our strategic r esponse necessitates continued 
investment in operational contingency planning, flight schedule o ptimisation, and enhanced safety measures 
for crews and passengers, which are embedded into financial planning. A ir Astana Group is also integrating 
climate risk assessments into its business strategy, leveraging adv anced weather-prediction tools, and 
collaborating with industry stakeholders to mitigate climate-re lated disruptions across its network.
OPPORTUNITIES 
Air Astana Group operates one of the youngest fleet s globally. This modern fleet comprises fuel-effici ent aircraft 
such as the Airbus A320neo and A321neo, which contr ibute to reduced fuel consumption and lower CO₂ 
emissions. Continued investment in advanced, fuel-e fficient aircraft aligns with global aviation decar bonisation 
targets and offers potential operating cost reducti ons.
Operational efficiency remains a key opportunity for reducing emiss ions and controlling costs. Air Astana Group 
is continuously enhancing fuel-efficient flight operations, incl uding pilot training on fuel-saving techniques, 
optimised route planning, improved aircraft weight management, an d other. These measures not only lower 
carbon emissions but also improve overall fuel economy, contributin g to long-term financial and environmental 
benefits.
Recognising the importance of SAF in reducing aviation’s carbon footpr int, our strategic partnerships to explore 
the feasibility of producing SAF in Kazakhstan underscore the Group’s co mmitment to sustainable practices, 
and positions it to capitalise on emerging opportunities in SAF develop ment. Involvement in SAF initiatives can 
enhance the airline’s sustainability credentials, provide a compe titive edge in key markets.
The global shift towards sustainability presents an opportunity to strengthen relationships with stakeholders who 
prioritise climate action. Air Astana Group can attract environmentally conscious consumers, institutional investors 
focused on green financing, and suppliers committed to ESG-aligned business practices. By positioning itself as a 
sustainability-driven airline, the Group can enhance brand value, improve investor confidence, and establish strategic 
partnerships with key stakeholders in the evolving low-carbon economy.
STRATEGY (continued)
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy, and financial 
planning where such information is material.
TCFD recommendation Progress to date
(c)  Describe the resilience of the 
organisation’s strategy, taking 
into consideration different 
climate-related scenarios, 
including a 2°C or lower scenario
Air Astana Group is implementing strategic and operational measures t o reduce climate-related emissions, 
enhancing its resilience to climate risks. In 2024 Air Astana Group colla borated with a consultancy firm to 
conduct a climate scenario analysis that assessed potential risks and o pportunities associated with climate 
change, including physical impacts and regulatory and technologic al shifts.
Transition risk and opportunity assessment
Transition risks and opportunities arise from the global shift toward s a low-carbon economy, driven by market 
trends, policies, technological advancements, and regulations . Air Astana Group selected four NGFS scenarios 
for calculation of transition risks: 
1.
  NDC (Nationally Determined Contributions) – This action plan aims to re duce emissions and adapt to 
climate impacts. NDC sets country-specific emissions reduction ta rgets for adapting to climate impacts.
2.  Below 2C – This scenario assumes a gradual tightening of climate regulati on. In this scenario, the likelihood 
of limiting global warming to 2°C is estimated at 67%.
3.  Delayed transition – This scenario assumes that annual emissions will n ot decrease until 2030, followed by 
a sharp tightening of carbon regulation.
4.  Net zero – This scenario aims to limit global warming to 1.5°C through string ent climate regulation and 
achieving net-zero CO2 emissions by approximately 2050.
Multiple time horizons were considered, including short-term, med ium-term and long-term. 
For the purposes of the assessment, model REMIND-MAgPIE was selected as t he most appropriate in terms of 
price trends and reflecting all the necessary parameters. REMIND-MA gPIE is a comprehensive IAM framework 
that simulates, in a forward-looking projection, the dynamics withi n and between the energy, land use, water, 
air pollution and health, economy and climate systems. The models were cr eated over a decade ago and are 
continually being improved to provide up-to-date scientific evide nce to decision and policy makers and other 
relevant stakeholders on climate change mitigation and SDGs strateg ies. 
Physical risk assessment
For the physical risk analysis that includes both acute and chronic event s a special tool was used which 
provides on-demand granular climate-related risks information . The tool is underpinned by climate projections 
sourced from reliable climate models participating in the CORDEX init iative, that combines global and regional 
models. Projections are obtained by selecting outputs for multiple IPC C experiments and scenarios: RCP 2.6 
(low-emissions future), RCP 4.5 (intermediate emissions future) , RCP 8.5 (high-emissions future). For the 
analysis of physical risks Air Astana Group identified aircraft fleet a nd supply chain as the most exposed assets 
to climate-related physical risks. A total of 29 locations that create th e biggest financial profit for Air Astana 
Group and present significant part of the Group’s value chain were select ed for the scenario analysis. The key 
physical climate-related risks were assessed against these scenar ios and time horizons.
Resilience 
The scenario analysis identified transition risks relating to carbo n regulation, SAF costs and physical risk 
impacts as key elements to continue to monitor. No significant impacts we re identified in the short and 
medium term. Due to the significant uncertainty associated with clima te-related scenario analysis, the Group 
will continue to monitor climate-related risk and opportunity asses sment in line with best practice. 
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024192   193   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
RISK MANAGEMENT
Disclose how the organisation identifies, assesses, and manages climate-related risk.
TCFD recommendation Progress to date
(a)  Describe the organisation’s 
processes for identifying and 
assessing climate-related risks
The Air Astana Group’s approach for the identification and assessment o f climate-related risks is integrated into 
its overall risk management framework ensuring alignment with the met hodology used for evaluating all other 
risks faced by the Group. 
Identification 
The Sustainability department works closely with the Risk managemen t team to identify and assess 
sustainability risks, including climate-related risks. We ident ify and assess both physical and transition risks 
associated with climate change. For this, we collaborate with externa l consultants, leveraging their expertise in 
climate risk modelling, regulatory analysis, and industry best prac tices to ensure a comprehensive and 
informed approach. Physical risks include acute wea ther events and chronic climate changes that may im pact 
flight operations, infrastructure and supply chains. Transition r isks encompass regulatory changes, shifts in 
market preferences, and technological advancements aimed at reduci ng carbon emissions. Regulatory horizon 
scanning, scenario analysis and stakeholder engagement informs ou r approach to identifying risk. 
Assessment 
We continuously monitor regulatory developments related to climat e change, including emissions limits, 
carbon-pricing mechanisms, and sustainability reporting requi rements. Compliance with aviation industry 
regulations, such as the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for Inter national Aviation (CORSIA) and 
national greenhouse gas reduction targets, is integrated into our ris k assessment process. Engagement with 
regulatory bodies, industry stakeholders and sustainability org anisations enables us to assess the risk and to 
stay ahead of emerging policy changes and industry standards. 
Climate-related risks are evaluated alongside traditional opera tional, financial, and strategic risks. Risks are 
prioritised based on their potential financial impact, operationa l disruption, regulatory implications, and 
reputational effects. Details on the Group’s risk identification and a ssessment processes can be found in the 
Risk Management section of this Integrated Report on page 74.
(b) 
 Describe the organisation’s 
processes for managing climate 
related risks 
Air Astana Group integrates climate-related risk management into it s broader Risk Management System, 
ensuring a systematic and continuous approach. This well structured a nd collaborative process involves 
multiple teams and departments. 
The senior management team is regularly updated on the current risk lands cape, including climate-related 
risks, and reports quarterly to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness o f the risk management system. This 
report includes an assessment of significant risks and the measures tak en to mitigate them.
To manage identified risks, mitigation actions are developed and assi gned to relevant risk owners who are 
experts in their respective areas. This approach allows the Group to effec tively prepare for long-term 
climate-related challenges while maintaining agility in address ing short-term risks. Mitigation actions for 
managing climate-related risks are described in the Risk Management s ection of this Integrated Report on 
page 74.
(c) 
 Describe how processes for 
identifying, assessing and 
managing climate-related risks 
are incorporated into the 
business overall risk 
management.
The Air Astana Group integrates the identification, assessment, and m anagement of climate-related risks into 
its overall risk management framework, carrying out these processes w ithin its CRMS, as outlined in the Risk 
Management section of this Integrated Report on page 74.
METRICS AND TARGETS
Disclose the metrics and targets used to assess and manage relevant climate-related risks and opportunities where such information is material.
TCFD recommendation Progress to date
(a)  Disclose the metrics used by the 
organisation to assess the 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities in line with its 
strategy and risk management 
process
Air Astana Group is committed to achieving carbon neutrality by 2050, alig ning with the aviation sector’s 
Long-Term Aspirational Goal (LTAG). We are dedicated to implementin g sustainable practices, improving fuel 
efficiency and exploring alternative energy sources to reduce our car bon footprint. 
The following metrics are disclosed on page 56 within the Sustainabilit y section of this Integrated Report:
 ► Total CO2 emissions (tonnes) from aircraft operations
 ► CO2 emissions intensity (Total CO2 emissions/ASK)
 ► CO2 emissions intensity (Total CO2 emissions/RPK)
 ► Energy consumption
 ► Volume of recycled waste
 ► Volume of disposed waste. 
(b)  Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and if 
appropriate, Scope 3 GHG and 
the related risks
Air Astana Group calculates its CO₂ emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), which 
categorises emissions into three main scopes. The majority of our CO₂ emissions fall under Scope 1, comprising 
direct emissions from our aircraft. However, we acknowledge that greenhouse gas emissions also occur throughout 
our value chain. Details of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions can be found on page 56 of the Sustainability section 
in this Integrated Report. Our Scope 1 emissions footprint has undergone independent verification with reasonable 
assurance by Normec Verifavia, a globally recognised leader in environmental validation, verification, and auditing 
for the transport sector, accredited by UKAS and COFRAC. Recognising the importance of Scope 3 emissions, we have 
made significant progress in our plans to begin their calculation in 2025.
(c) 
 Describe the targets used by  
the organisation to manage 
climate-related risks and 
opportunities and performance 
against targets
The Group has sets targets as part of the LCDP which is incorporated into the Grou p’s ESG Strategy and is 
consistent with Kazakhstan’s aim to achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. I n 2024, we revised our net zero 
commitment, moving our target from 2060 to 2050 in alignment with the globa l aviation industry’s goals, 
rather than Kazakhstan’s national target. Following this decision , we recognized the need to update the LCDP 
accordingly and began this work in 2024. It now incorporates a structured d ecarbonisation roadmap with 
near-term targets for the next five years..
The Group is planning to calculate and disclose its Scope 3 emissions in 2025 .
Additional information Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) continued Additional information Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) continued 
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024 AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024194   195   
fulﬁlling our promises AT A GLANCE  STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Additional information
Glossary
AAK Aviation Administration of Kazakhstan
ACTK Available cargo tonne-kilometres
Air Astana Group Air Astana and FlyArystan brands
AOC Air Operator Certificate
APEX Airline Passenger Experience Association
ASK Available-seat kilometres
CAA Civil Aviation Administration
CAC Civil Aviation Committee
CASK Cost of Available Seat Kilometre
CEET Cabin Emergency Evacuation Trainers
CRMS Corporate Risk Management System
CSAT Customer Satisfaction Ratings
CTK Cargo tonne-kilometres
E&M Engineering and Maintenance
EASA European Aviation Safety Agency
EBITDAR Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, 
amortisation, and restructuring or rent costs
EBRD European Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development
EC European Commission
ECLs Expected credit losses
EME Extraordinary market event
ESG Environmental, Social and Governance
FH Fuel hedging
FRMS Fatigue Risk Management System
FVOCI Fair value through other comprehensive income
FVTPL Fair value through profit or loss
GHG Greenhouse Gas
GRF Global Reporting Format
GRI Global Reporting Initiative
HEART Hospitable, Efficient, Active, Reliable, Trustworth y
HSE Health, Safety and Environment
IAA Irish Aviation Authority
IAS Internal Audit Service
IATA The International Air Transport Association
ICAO International Civil Aviation Organisation
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards
IOSA IATA Operational Safety Audit
ISO International Organization for Standardization
KPI Key Performance Indicator
LCC Low-cost carrier
LCDP Low-Carbon Development Programme
MRO Maintenance, Repair, Overhaul 
NPS Net Promoter Score
RPK Revenue Passengers Kilometres
SCAA State Civil Aviation Agency
About this report 
Reporting scope and boundaries
The scope of this Annual Report encompasses Air Astana Group’s operations for the period 
from 1 January to 31 December 2024. Our reporting boundaries primarily focus on activities 
directly managed and controlled by Air Astana Group. While we strive for transparency and 
accuracy in reporting, it’s important to note that certain data may be subject to limitations, 
such as availability, reliability, and comparability. We have made reasonable efforts to 
address these constraints and provide meaningful insights.
Reporting standards and external assurance 
In preparing this Annual Report, we have adhered to internationally recognised 
frameworks and standards to ensure the quality and consistency of our disclosures.
Our disclosures align with the Global Reporting Ini tiative (GRI 2021) Standards, the Task 
Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) recommendations, and the 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS).  
To provide assurance on the accuracy and reliability of our sustainability-related 
information, we have engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers  Tax & Advisory LLP to conduct 
limited assurance. The financial statements include d in this report have been audited by 
KPMG Audit LLC in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). 
We are committed to upholding the highest standards of reporting excellence and will 
continue to engage with independent assurance providers to strengthen the trust and 
confidence of our stakeholders in our disclosures.
Note:
Throughout this Integrated Report, the terms ‘Company’, ‘Air Astana’, ‘We’ refer to Air 
Astana JSC while ‘Group’ encompasses both Air Astana JSC and FlyArystan JSC. Air Astana 
JSC is a sole shareholder of FlyArystan JSC.
Design and production: 
cbgtogether.com
together
AIR ASTANA GROUP Integrated Annual Report 2024196   
fulﬁlling our promises
airastana.com
